Hello, Fancy Farm. I'll tell you what is interesting—just for the record, the only Russian flags I’ve ever seen in Kentucky are all over here. Just saying. But that said, for all the angst, for all the animosity, for all the joy, for all the sadness, for all the cheers and for all the jeers, I love Kentucky—I love the Commonwealth of Kentucky. I love the United States of America. I’m grateful that I live in a country where no matter what someone believes in, no matter which state or which side of the Ohio you’re from, you are free to assemble here. You are free to gather here. You are free to express your opinions here. You’re free to say anything you want.
I was struck by something a moment ago when Mark Wilson was kicking this off. Mark Wilson reminded us that this isn’t just about politics. He said that for 139 years—certainly in those most recent years—this has been about raising funds for St. Jerome’s Parish. This is a Catholic Church picnic. It is a fundraiser for the Catholic Church.
I wanna show you something - This week there was another fundraiser held by and for Andy Beshear (my opponent). It was hosted by the man (my opponent) who owns the only abortion clinic left in Kentucky—it was attended by doctors who still kill children under the name of abortion in Kentucky. This entire slate that was there and that supports this abortion clinic. This attorney general (my opponent) has never once challenged a single pro-life bill passed by the legislature—Republican and Democrat—in this state. You talk about collusion. The only collusion that has ever happened in Kentucky is the collusion between this attorney general (my opponent), Attorney General Stumbo before that, and Conway, and the abortion industry in Kentucky.
There are a lot of things we could talk about. You’ve heard the statistics. We have the lowest unemployment in the history of Kentucky. We have more people working now than ever in the history of Kentucky. We have more goods, services, and crops being produced here in Kentucky and sent to the world than ever in our history. We have more people productively working and contributing to the American Dream than ever before.
So this is about a choice. The question you have to ask yourself is this: do you want to keep going forward, or do you want to go backward? The question I have asked you to ask yourselves is which side are you on? Are you on the side of sanctuary cities, or are you on the side of protecting the rule of law and securing our borders? Which side are you on? Are you on the side of life, or are you on the side of those who would take lives and profit from the blood money associated with it?
Which side are you on? Are you on the side of moving forward without corruption—where people like Steve Beshear (my opponent’s father) and Andy Beshear (my opponent) are not employing people who are now in federal prison for buying and selling this state literally for cash in parking lots, thinking this state is for sale? Which side are you on? This is a race about choices.
Are you on the side of the only administration, the only governor, and the only legislature in the history of Kentucky to fund the pension system? Or are you on the side of those who robbed the pension system year after year after year? Which side are you on? Which side are you on?
This should not be a difficult decision. It’s a function of whether you stand for America and American principles, or whether you stand for socialism. Which side are you on? Do you stand with Donald Trump as President of America, or do you stand with “the Squad,” or whatever they call themselves these days? Which side are you on? This is the question.
While we clearly on these issues and others, we clearly stand on different sides. I will continue to fight for doing the right thing—for never sweeping lottery funds and for putting 100 percent of them into education for the first time ever; for funding the pension system for the first time ever; for continuing to fight for the men and women who serve this state and making sure they have the dignity of retirement. I will continue to fight for that, even though those on the other side have never done that despite all their rhetoric. They were in charge for 96 years, and we had the worst-funded pension system in America.
Despite all the differences, despite the fact that you need to ask yourself which side you’re on, I want to close with something that I hope we all agree on. I know some on the other side don’t, but I hope here in Kentucky most of them do. We are blessed to be Americans. We are blessed to live in the United States of America. I would ask that you stand with me and pledge allegiance to this flag that one and a half million Americans have died for since the inception of this nation. Will you pledge to this flag with me?
I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
May God bless you, may God bless Kentucky, and may God bless the United States of America. Thank you.

