Questions that you have. Let me say this before we take questions - I truly am grateful for the fact that although it was a low turn out as was expected, it was a much better turnout than anyone predicted. Better than it was last time and even four years ago on both sides. WE don't know the final tally but it looks like it will be somewhere in the 16 percent range roughly for Republicans. About 20 percent range for democrats. And that will be what is expected given the competitiveness on one side vs the other. Certainly highly contested on the democrat side. But a good race on both sides, i mean you had four candidates on both sides everybody w rare exception was out there working it on both sides and i appreciate the voters of kentucky stepping up I really appreciate it. The greatest privilege we have as americans is to go to the ballot box and while 15 - 20 percent is rather sad nonetheless better than had been predicted and i think bodes well for the kind of interested we see when we get to the general election, certainly relative to historical perspective. Thank you to those who voted, certainly thank you to those who voted for us. We are grateful to be going forward into the general election and its seemingly clear as to who the other candidates will be and I am happy to answer any questions you may have. This has been my opponents election to loose and their is possibility that he could but it doesn't look like he did so this isn't that surprising- i think any and all of you who have asked me my thoughts on this, I  think the same for ralph as we have been asked about it - we don't have a crystal ball, we can't predict these things. But this is not a surprising outcome - I think it's a little concerning for him that he couldn't even get 40 percent of the electorate with three candidates on that side. I will come out on top because what you are going to have is a really clear contrast on issues that matter significantly to people in Kentucky. You have in Andy Beshear someone that proudly supported Hillary Clinton - that doesn't play well in Kentucky. And for good reason - you have in andy beshear someone who brought Anar in just in the past couple of days to help push him over the top in this primary who is strongly and unapologetically abortion. The contrast with ralph and myself who are strongly pro life who are supported by president trump and supported by the people of kentucky it will be a binary choice at this point all the hypotheticals and the other possibilities are going to fade away and the people of Kentucky are going to have a very clear choice to make and the people of Kentucky are going to have to decide. My victory today was narrow but we were outspent significantly. Listen I spoke with Robert go forth he ran a good race. I'll be honest I mean he did what was needed to try to win - he dropped a lot of mailers, he did a lot of footwork, he was at a lot of dinners, he drove a lot of miles, he shook a lot of hands, he did what was needed to get your name out there and your ID. He did really well, where he and Mike Hogan who is from eastern Kentucky and they did a good job out there in making a case for themselves and god bless them - I appreciated the call from them. I love the fact that in America we have this ability even within parties, even when someone is an incumbent that anyone who wants to do the work can step up and make the case. So frankly I think he did a credible job of making the case for himself - certainly for some people I mean he got like 30% of the vote, I don't know that the final numbers are in but he did a good job. Have I ever struck any of you people as people who did polling or compared things, I didn't. It's about what I expected he would get 30 something percent - the amount of money he spent, the amount of time he spent. It's a moot point, its topical maybe tonight and maybe in this moment, a day from now, certainly a week from now it will be irrelevant, no one will even remember or talk about it and the choice will be Ralph and myself against Beshear thats going to be the ticket. And it's going to be a remarkably stark contrast between the two tickets. Conservative vs liberal, black and white, night and day, - that is clear. It would be more than a little presumptuous of me to assume that the president of the United States is going to go anywhere a number of times in the next 6 months but he's a good friend, its mutual. I respect the man - he loves America. He is busting his tail to address things that need to be discussed. We have a good relationship and he will be here. He has made that clear and I look forward to it, I mean the people of Kentucky look forward to it. How many times - we’ll see. I mean I couldn't even begin to imagine. I mean its appropriate, of course. I hope we have about aguberatorial and luitenet governor debates. Without any question I mean your thoughts on that, why would we not I mean we owe that to people. THey dont always make a lot of sense in crowded primaries unless its on the democrat side where they each need to make a case but in the general election absolutely - i think we owe that to people. Him (my opponent) saying that he has beat me doesnt matter because it's not true for starters. I mean he is suing me and he's not beating me. In reality he has lost far more cases of significance than he has won. In all of the claims about things like suing more people than any other attorney general - how many dollars has he brought into the state of Kentucky - 0. I mean it's a lot of empty talk but that is what we have been getting from my opponent and his father for about ten years and now people have this choice. If they want four more years of empty promises from my opponent and his father they are going to have that choice. I don't think people want that. I mean people want to talk about the pension even when they dont want to because it's topical now. And this is what it needed to be - we needed to make sure that this came to the forefront. And Ralph you can speak to this. I mean obviously everybody has known about it for some time but even in the legislature it wasn't something people discussed - it was ignored for a long time. Now it is on the table and its got to be a addressed and it hasn't been. Adoption and foster care - tremendous amount of effort being spent in this state to make Kentucky the gold standard. Tort reform, judicial reform - these things are going to be topical. Not fun, not easy, not pleasant, but the reality is that they have to be discussed. Economic development, getting our corporate and individual tax rates in line with competitive rates with other states. These things, modernizing out tax codes. All these things will be topics of conversation. Still a lot of cleanup. A lot of things have piled up here in the state of Kentucky, a lot of bad policy for the better part of 100 years and no we are just cleaning it up. So again it's going to be a very stark contrast, the one thing I will say about this race is that the difference between our ticket and their ticket will be very clear to voters. 

I don't know what you are talking about. Does anyone have any questions about this actual race at all. I don't even know what that is talking about. Let me say this - I want to say Congratulations to others that are seemingly known. I’ll speak from the republican side, it looks like Daniel Cameron will be the nominee on the attorney general front. Talk about a market difference between him and Mark Stumbo. The democrat party is doing nothing but recycling tired, stale, outdated names with tired, stale, outdated ideas. Greg Stumbo, my gracious - I can't think of anybody that would not be .. Let me just say it's going to be a clear choice for people on that front as well. It will look like Michael Adams is winning on that front. That was a tough one. I'll tell you there were a lot of good candidates on the republican side. Looks like he will be the nominee and that is solid. There is probably no one else in america that knows as much about election law that's either running for or in a position to win secretary of state anywhere in America. Certainly a sharp guy and definitely knows a thing or two about that. There’s going to be a clear contrast there as well. I mean again you look at Heather and I think highly of her as a person but my goodness her husband has been a poster child for everything that elections law should not be about. And the violations and things distort the fact that she would be the nominee, it would seem coming out on that side to uphold something that her husband has been repeatedly in violation of is not a good way to come out of the gate. So there's going to be some interesting contrast. My co runner is one of 138 people that will have more to say about the special session than I will. I don’t think my slim win today will hurt my chances in the general election. If you remember four years ago at this time I won by 83 votes. Anyone in elected office everyday has to earn and earn back and retain the votes. No question and take nothing for granted. Even now although I am confident that we will win because the market difference is going to be so obvious to people, in no way shape or form is that a given. Not even remotely. And as I said, it will I believe be ours to lose. Could we lose it? We could. Do I think we will? I don’t, I really don’t. But the reality is as soon as we think it is in the bag and take our foot off the gas that's the beginning of the end for people politically. So without question there are connections that need to be initiated and made for the first time and others that need to be re-engaged with but all of this is going to become very clear to people. Really lets be honest - not many people are going to pay that much attention until after labor day. We are all going to be back together with a sense of urgency September, October, and in the first week of November. Last time I won 106/120 counties so I need to make connections with 14 counties to start. I have not spoken with the white house this evening, earlier today but not since the election was called. Thank you all for being here really. Thanks for covering this. Get ready, it's going to be an interesting campaign. We are going to be seeing a lot of each other this summer but especially this fall. 
