Well, I’m going to begin by pulling together a strong team of leaders, because that is what I do well—bring together teams, set up our challenges, face our challenges, establish goals, and achieve those goals. What I know is I’m going to bring a team together to focus on the budget and on our mission, which is to create jobs and economic opportunity for Vermonters, to support middle-class families and their kids, and give them the opportunity to live, work, and stay right here in Vermont. This is a critical time in our state. Too many Vermonters are struggling just to make ends meet because wages are not keeping up with the cost of living. Women in this economy—43% of women who work full-time—still can’t meet their basic needs. We need to change this story, and I’m going to be a governor with a great team leading us forward for a better future.
So I have managed a $600 million budget, balanced that budget every year as I ran the transportation agency—first as deputy, then as secretary—and I know what it takes. We had every year changes in whether the federal dollars were going to come or not, and I know it takes scenario planning. I know it takes choices between what we spend and what we don’t, and how we prioritize. But I want to say one thing that’s important, because Phil (my opponent) has not mentioned what he’s planning to cut. Now, we know last year when the budget was presented and the Republicans in the House presented how they would manage the budget, they proposed cuts to child care subsidies, cuts to affordable housing, cuts to college tuition payments, cuts to our state colleges. They even cut the Commission on Women. Those are not the way that I think are going to support middle-class families and grow our economy.
 So right now what we know is that our revenues are not keeping up with the projections, but we are a long way to go between now and January. We have to see how the next quarter revenues come in. I have seen extraordinary fluctuations, having watched how the transportation fund has gone up and down. So I’m not going to put anything on the table until I know exactly what we’re coming up with, as you know it changes with every quarter. And I think it’s important to be saying what is going to happen at that time. What I do know is what I won’t raise is new sales or service taxes that are going to hurt the middle class. You know, I looked at Phil’s (my opponent) economic development plan, and what I saw were tax breaks primarily for corporations and the wealthy, and I don’t see any way that he has to pay for them.

So what I’ve explained is that we do need to think about our future and what are the taxes that hurt middle-class Vermonters, and how we can actually build our economy to support the programs we need. I’ve made it very clear—and I will say it again—I will not add new sales or service taxes that hurt middle-class Vermonters. What I will do is look for those loopholes that are benefiting wealthy people, such as exemptions for lobbyists, exemptions for limousine rides, and the interest payment on second homes. Are those the things that are going to help middle-class Vermonters? What I want to also point out is that Phil (my opponent)  and his friends in the Republican Party have been claiming falsely that I have proposed a carbon tax. It is sounding more like national Republican talking points, and I want to make it clear that I have a strategy to look at climate change, to address our carbon emissions, to build on a very successful program called the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative. 

 You know, I’ve been working on balancing our transportation budget for the last six years—a $600 million budget—and I’ll tell you, we have been having to work on improving maintenance. When I was in the legislature in 2009, we had to find out that bridges were closing in emergency all around the state. We actually did a study and analyzed that we had 20% of our bridges structurally deficient. We worked bipartisan to come up with a plan. We passed a transportation infrastructure bond fund. I had the opportunity to manage the agency and to focus on innovation and efficiency. We created a new accelerated bridge program. We’re building bridges faster, cheaper, and smarter. We’ve gone from having 20% of our bridges structurally deficient to now just 7%. I know how to manage, how to innovate, how to make efficiencies, and make government work, because we have to make sure we don’t let our bridges fall down ever again.

 I am very focused—and have been for six years—on this very matter. It is critically important not just to fix our roads and bridges, but to actually help Vermonters get out of their cars by focusing on public transit, ride-sharing, walking, sidewalks, and bike lanes. Thats what I have been working on - increasing the use of public transit. We are going to need to change peoples driving behaviour and get more people into electric cars. This is going to make an enormous change in how we are going to reduce our carbon emission. ANd you know what Transportation is 46% of our carbon footprint here in Vermont, and that’s why I’ve proposed a plan to build on the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative started under governor douglas to build transportation into this. So we can work together as a region to reduce carbon emissions, help reduce the amount we have to rely on our cars and really move forward to address climate change. 
absolutely for the last six years I have been working so hard and our team has been aggressively pursuing federal grants we've increased over a hundred million of investment in the western Corridor rail program we are now 12 miles away from getting Rutland from getting the Ethan Allen from Rutland to the Queen City this is going to make a huge difference and it's going to build from there on the Eastern side I'm so excited about the progress we've made we have been negotiating for the last three years with the province of Quebec and believe it or not we have to uh negotiate with the province of Quebec with the state of New York with the state of Massachusetts and uh Connecticut because we are all in an agreement with Amtrak we have made huge progress and I am so so ready to be that Governor to actually get it done because I have been in these negotiations we have made huge progress on getting uh a facility in Downtown Montreal so people can go straight from the border across very difficult very important and I'm ready to do it.

I do not support a carbon tax for Vermont what I am looking forward to is building on the work that I've been working on for the last three years uh in the transportation agency working with other states throughout the Northeast region you know I was the president of the National Association the Northeast Association of State Transportation Officials we had initiatives to actually work as a region and it takes strong leadership to actually build successful policy region wide that's why I want to continue the work I've been doing on expanding the regional greenhouse gas initiative this program which was started under Governor Douglas actually reduced carbon emissions throughout the Northeast by 24 percent and brought over 12 million to Vermont to invest in Energy Efficiency and renewable efficiencies so this is what we can do when we build the transportation sector into the greenhouse gas initiative and I'm excited to be the the leader that it takes to work collaboratively across the region 

Phil (my opponent) so sorry you don't understand policies uh that relate to reducing emissions the greenhouse gas initiative is actually a cap and trade program where states like Vermont that reduce emissions receive benefits in terms of investments just like we've received on the electric side we've received over million of investments we will be able to receive investments not taxes for alternatives to the single occupant vehicle for rail helping us get our rail back in our transit. this is what we can do when we work together to reduce our emissions in Vermont those States that go above the cap will actually have to invest in what we need transferring our energy uh economy to a noncarbon based economy final word 
you know Phil is being supported in this election million funded by the national Republican Governor Association and the oil billionaire Koch brothers do you know why they've been opposing a cap and trade in California for the last decade do you know why this is such an issue let's talk about what's happening we cannot let out of state oil tycoons buy this election and I am surprised to find Phil Scott (my opponent) towing the national Republican line to talk about climate change as if it is not a problem we have to come together around this problem climate change is real it's happening right here in Vermont it's affecting jobs let's think about last winter what happened in the Northeast Kingdom when the snow machines didn't come to the General Stores what happened to the snowplow drivers that couldn't actually get work what is happening when we lose our Winters this is serious this is why we have to come together we need leaders who are going to address this critical issue of our time
I have made College affordability a centerpiece of my campaign why because right now two thirds of the jobs of the century require some kind of Education and Training Beyond high school and here in Vermont while we do a great job getting kids through high school we do a very weak job getting them beyond. four out of ten Vermont high school graduates are not continuing and that's why I've proposed Vermont promise two years of tuition free Community or Technical College to
give the Next Generation the opportunity for qualifying for livable wage jobs and economic security it is critical because when I'm traveling and talking to the businesses of this state they cannot find Qualified workers it's their biggest challenge we need to invest in the students to make the workforce to grow our economy this is my Vermont promise I am committed to this and yes we can 
yes uh we will be raising uh 6 million in the first year uh through a Bank franchise fee on large Banks uh with over 750 million worth of deposits listen we can't afford not to do this right now with four out of ten kids not going Beyond we see a growth of generational poverty kids it used to be enough to have a high school diploma but it's not anymore and that's why we have to be thinking about the future we have percent of kids coming to kindergarten unready to learn in Vermont and four out of ten not going beyond what does that mean for the future of our Vermont what does it mean for the future of our economy we must invest in these students and you know when you get an associate's degree you earn on average more per year with a bachelor's degree you earn on average 32000 more per year that's what Vermonters need they need an education they need qualifications and they need great paying jobs so that they can live work and stay right here in Vermont 
why we go ask for big Banks to help be partners with us first of all they have a commitment to reinvest in communities they also over the last ten years have had pretty much a flatline in terms of how much they're they have invested into the general fund over the last decade they've paid about 10.3 million in 2007  and looking at  10.5 million in the next year has anyone else's property taxes been flat I don't think so I think that Banks can pay their fair share so that our students get a fair shake so that we actually have a future with kids who have a job and economic security so they can actually be participants in our economy and use the resources of the banks it surprises me when I hear no plans for college affordability but all I hear is that we can't do anything we have to take this on we have to commit to the Future Generations because what else do we have for our future if we aren't supporting our kids. These are people that aren't going to go on and it isn't free they'll have to give community service and they will have volunteer mentors to help be their Champions 

Look if we are going to do debt forgiveness we need a revenue source for that too I would prefer to not let our kids go into debt and let only those kids who can actually manage to get into the process.  let's just talk about it kids decide at the sixth grade whether or not they're going to Aspire Beyond high school we need to give them hope we need them to have the volunteer mentors that my Vermont promise program will have so they can actually go into college so they can have the two years it's going to cost the same but it's only going to help those who have the capacity to get in to fill out those FAFSA forms and to actually believe that they can do it our kids. there's a whole generation of kids who aren't going Beyond high school. if we want to break the generational cycle of poverty if we want to grow Economic Opportunity and security for the Next Generation we've got to give them a chance that's my Vermont promise you're going to pay for it either way I'd rather give it to them upfront and give them a hope and give them a chance

I think my plans do exactly what we've just been talking about, helping to keep young people here and putting more students into our state college system. you know we can't just beg Vermonters to come to the students to stay, we need to create great communities. that's what my invest Vermont is all about great communities, livable wage jobs affordable housing just like we did in Barre where we put million of public investment into that downtown have leveraged over million of private investment that's what we can do around this state that's what's going to bring young people to stay here. young entrepreneurs and you know what I have the plans to do this we are talking about cutting taxes I don't see how that is anything but a republican talking point that isn't going to solve our problems I have real plans to make this work I want to bring people here and young people I have a VT Outdoors plan let's build on our great recreational assets that's what young people want to come to Vermont to do to recreate to have new jobs to be great parts of our economy. 

I will say that it is the rising cost of Health Care that is really breaking the banks of our families our school budgets and Rising property taxes and our state budget. so what we need to do first and foremost is address that Rising health care cost and that's why we need to reform we need to continue on our health care reform agenda moving away from the current system of incentivizing more fees more visits more pills and procedures and instead focus on subsidizing investing in health and outcomes that's the kind of Reform that I am looking forward to moving on with respect to Vermont Health Connect look this has failed many Vermonters and I want to say that it is undermining our faith in government. I have overseen large IT projects in a million budget I know that it is not simple to cut the plug we have to have a plan if we cannot make this functional and I'm going to look at the independent assessment understand what the opportunities are but we have to have a plan that doesn't kick people off their healthcare 
so what I'm saying is that we can't just scrap Vermont Health Connect unless we have a plan to do so precisely because it will cost we have an estimate of over million up front and those are State dollars not federal dollars. and I've understand that people will lose their health care benefits the issue is it isn't simple to jump to the federal exchange because our programs in Vermont actually support so many different programs which the federal exchange won't cover. so if I learn that we can't actually make this system work I will come up with a plan that is very thoughtful about not allowing people to lose their health care coverage 



have a plan for doing so and I I'm I'm absolutely positive we can do it. 
 what I am focused on for health care reform is reducing the cost of the system. let me tell you about what I saw yesterday at Cathedral Square it's a senior housing development in Burlington they are using an Innovative program called SASH something I worked on supporting when I was a legislator they are providing Health Care to seniors in their homes when they need it most -regular routine Wellness care. you know what they've demonstrated because they've discussed what are the outcomes and what are the costs. that providing care for seniors in their home when they need it is actually reducing significantly anybody use of hospitals which of course is the most expensive care. in fact they've demonstrated over of savings per patient per year. look what we can do when we think differently that's what we need to be thinking how do we provide more resources for prevention and community-based health and how do we actually incentivize that the Health Care System we have now incentivizes more people going to the hospital and treating them there. we've got to build a system that can actually invest in
I'm a strong supporter of the Second Amendment and Vermont's rights to own guns and I honor the hunting Heritage here but I do believe it is time for common sense gun safety and I support background checks for all guns.  why because we have a national epidemic of gun violence in this country and sadly we're not immune here in Vermont. and I know what's really happening because I've been told that we don't have a problem but I've seen the problem and it's often behind closed doors. and I'm talking about domestic violence because in Vermont the majority of our homicides are domestic violence related and the majority of those are with guns. in states that have background checks for all handguns percent 46 percent fewer women are shot to death by their intimate partner so I say yes I'm going to stand up for gun safety.  I'm going to protect women behind their closed doors and I'll stand up to the gun lobby
right now farmers in our state are really struggling.  of course we have very low milk prices and there are additional requirements being placed upon them for our water quality all of which I which I will support as Governor. but I know that our Dairy Farmers need technical assistance they need support and best practices to ensure their management and I agree that there may be some who if they can transition to organic where the prices are much higher that might be a sustainable option for them. so I will have a a secretary of agriculture who will be looking to support those conventional Farmers but also to help with that transition. I also have a program uh called innovate Vermont it looks to drive innovation in our four key sectors of our economy.  and one of them is our farm food and forest economy Phil (my opponent) was talking about the great Pete's Greens and all of the exciting Innovative uh farms and Food Industries in the Northeast Kingdom and elsewhere
we've got Jasper Hill cheese we have incredible dairy uh products this is the future of Vermont this Renaissance of our great agricultural economy. 
Well I've given uh my whole adult life to public service and I actually think uh our government is something that we need to believe in trust in and feel confident about that's why I have worked very hard in my public service. to focus on being accountable to taxpayers we really have lost faith in our government I want to make sure we know that government can function and is there when we need it just like we did in Irene I mean we had over miles of Road damaged overnight.  we had to pull together I was at the transportation agency the Emergency Operations uh had been flooded out it was up to us at the state agency of transportation to pull together to innovate to partner and to do what nobody thought possible - actually reconnect those roads rebuild those bridges in less than four months. That's what government can do as it builds great Partnerships that's what we are there for. I want to be a governor that helps make sure we are providing great service to the customers great accountability to the taxpayers.
