Well, by doing just that. You know, the first day is not a day for vacation—it’s a day for getting to work. I’ve been working my whole adult life. I’ve been 35 years in business, and during that time I bring people together. I look for talent, I look for team chemistry, and that’s something I’ve done with my race team, in politics—bringing people together, consensus building, facilitating a team that will work together in order to rise to the challenge. The challenge we face, of course, is our economy. This crisis of affordability we face in Vermont is real, and it’s going to take a lot of us pulling in the same direction in order to accomplish what we need to accomplish—focusing on the budget, trying to develop that in a short period of time. I’ll be bringing together a lot of talented individuals that have already shown interest in trying to bring Vermont forward.
Well, I’ve already said we don’t have to guess at this. I will not propose or sign a budget that grows faster than the economy did in the previous year. Our wages grew in the previous year—this is something that’s been the problem over the last seven years. The legislature has adopted a method of being over-optimistic in their growth expectations, and during that time they’ve raised taxes and fees and spending limits to about $700 million over the last seven years. So I propose we look back to last year. If the economy grew at 1%, then we cap the growth of the budget to 1%. It’s as simple as that. We’ll find efficiencies, we’ll modernize state government, and we’ll find the will to get through this without raising taxes and fees. I have all kinds of specifics. Go to philscott.org to see all those - my economic plan and my budget modernization. 

 Well, that’s a goal. We look at it in our own budgets, in our own daily lives—if we can save a penny for every dollar we spend, I’m sure we can find some savings. We can find savings in state government as well. We’re just not looking hard enough. And we can’t tax our way out of the situation we’re in. That’s what’s been happening for the last seven years. Sue (my opponent) has proposed a tax on services, Sue (my opponent) has proposed a carbon tax, Sue (my opponent) has proposed a cap-and-trade scheme—that’s not the way to get ourselves out of the situation we find ourselves in. We’re in a hole right now. We should stop digging. We’re going to have to tighten our belts, find efficiencies within government, and work our way out of this. But we can’t tax our way out of it—that’s not a way to grow the economy.
 Well, this is part of what drove me into politics to begin with. There was the raid of the transportation fund about 20 years ago to the tune of about 50-something million dollars every single year that was used for other purposes. That’s when I decided to step up to run, because I thought we should do better. Our roads, our infrastructure were failing. During that time, I’m pleased to say, during my years in the Senate we were able to reduce that from $50 million down to a more manageable $15 to $20 million, and that goes to the state police at this time.
So I think that was a step in the right direction. If you think about it, that was done over a 10- to 20-year period. If we had invested in infrastructure at that point, we wouldn’t have the problem today. But I don’t believe that we should be taxing our way out of this. We don’t need to raise taxes on already overburdened Vermonters. We can’t afford to, and they can’t afford to. So we’re going to have to look for a federal initiative in order to solve this issue.
 On the national level, yes—they need to start talking about something different. I agree. But not here in Vermont—we can’t be doing something different than the rest of the country.
 yeah absolutely I think uh this is something we've been working on in Senate transportation for a number of years and it's something that we've been working with the federal delegation with uh uh Congressman Welch was on uh Senate Transportation with me uh when we started talking about this and trying to uh bring the Montrealer back and and some of the Border concerns are are some of what prevent us from going uh any further but we we're going to solve that problem as well but I think it's uh it's imperative uh that we uh continue to fix the Western Corridor so that we can have passenger rail come from New York City right to to Burlington and then hopefully from beyond into Montreal and that will help in all kinds of different ways from uh tourism uh to trade and uh and freight freight as well so that would be uh something that I would focus on and something that we have been focusing on for a number of years 
sure sounds like she (my opponent) supports a carbon tax uh whether it's regionally or for the state it sure sounds that way I'm not in favor of the carbon tax I would if if a carbon tax came to my desk as Governor I would veto it 
cap and trade in California cost them cents a gallon that sounds like another tax increase so we have the carbon tax and the cap and trade so it sounds expensive to me and we are already overburdened by taxes as it is we don't need anymore 
well we certainly want to have an affordable education for our youth uh and that could come in all kinds of different ways I think tech ed is something that we should really be taking a look at.  I'm a product of the vocational program when I went to Spalding High School uh I did my afternoons in in vocational training and I did my mornings as a in college prep before going on to UVM and then I wanted to be a tech ed teacher I don't believe that we focus enough on the trades and I believe that in our in our school systems we should reinstitute uh industrial Arts more tech ed more maker
space to to tap into the creative minds of the youth I think there's going to be the trades are going to be the future the service uh technicians of the future are going to need some training two years would be enough in some respects but we should also make it affordable by cutting down the cost of borrowing more than anything else I had it my daughter uh went to uh went to uh School in Rhode Island and uh she came out with debt and they the the Sallie Maes of the world came in with a percent interest rate after she uh she obtained uh financing 
here we go again nothing is free somebody has to pay and she's (my opponent) she's going to raise taxes and on somebody that there's going to be a fee increase for the big Banks and they don't have a magical bank account that that's going to come out of they are going to uh charge us we're going to pay for it in some way I mean whether it's in checking account fees or fees in your bank uh somebody has to pay nothing is free having said that I think we need to make College more affordable and attainable for those who want to to do it uh but having something free doesn't necessarily uh make it so uh I did the I was able to uh to give the commencement address to CCV a couple of years ago and I was so inspired by what I saw as they walked across the stage to receive their diploma some of them uh having kids that were grown up uh at their side uh and you could see it across their faces the sense of appreciation they had for the education that they earned and worked for
let's look at what the real problem is we have a demographic issue here in this uh State we have a population that's stagnant we're we're losing this category from to we've lost people out of the category alone since the last census.  those are the folks that buy homes have families utilize Services buy products and pay taxes so that's what we need to rebuild and we have fertile ground here we have college students every single year here in this state that graduate and so they're the ones that we should be asking what is it going to take to keep you here and I think what they'll tell you is they want opportunity they want affordable housing and they want to be able to live here and afford to live here. what we're doing right now when you hear all the the the the schemes of raising more taxes and fees and spending more money. we're not focusing on the economy. we're not focusing on the opportunity in order to have them be able to stay here and be able to live here as well as our seniors I mean it's the it's the affordability crisis that's the real problem 
well we'll see I think Jeb Spaulding's done a great job as Chancellor thus far. I think that was a good move to to merge the two. I I think we're going to have to look at other opportunities but again if we can if we can make for a better Vermont so that we can we can have more opportunity here I think we'll have more Economic Opportunity as well for our higher ed institutions. they're part of our economy as well and an important part at that. 
well first of all we have to pull the plug on Vermont Health Connect I think it's simple uh we we take a look at what's been happening over the last number of years a number of failed promises along the way to to shore up this IT structure that's dysfunctional that's never worked appropriately we're still getting calls in our office every single day from people that are having problem problems accessing the system and getting changes in the system and that's just not after spending over million on this failed initiative you have to have the will you have to show the courage in in the leadership to say enough is enough. when you find yourself in a hole you stop digging and we're still digging and uh what we need to do is transition to something else whether it's the federal exchange or going in with another state whether it's Connecticut or or Hawaii or somebody else there's other alternatives to what we're doing. we have a custom made IT structure that nobody else has thank thank heavens because they can't afford it 
30,000 people in Vermont that are on Vermont Health Connect can pretty much tell you it's not working so we need to pull the plug on it it's as simple as that it's been promised in 2013 and 2014, 2015, 2016 that we could fix it by governor Shumlin and it hasn't been done so it's time to say enough is enough and and move to something else now. as far as Medicaid is concerned Vermont there's other initiatives the when I spoke to Connecticut they said they could handle the Medicaid portion uh within within their IT structure uh.  Hawaii had the exact same uh contractor that we did CGI to begin with and they they moved to the federal system they kept a portion of was built for Medicaid now we could talk to them and I'm sure that they could give us some opportunity and some ideas for transitioning to the federal exchange without losing anyone off. Medicaid so this isn't going to happen overnight uh but it's it's something that we just need to transition to over the next year 
well I believe everyone deserves access to Affordable Health Care. I think that that's a common uh goal that all of us probably share. but we've uh We've you know we've seen health care spending go up 20 percent in the last 6 years in part because we spent a lot of time on experiments that just didn't pan out. As I talked about before transitioning from the the Vermont Health Connect to something else is a First Step At least to take that structurally uh and you asked about Dr Dynasaur uh the RAND Corp is doing a study on that at this very moment. uh I'm looking forward to the results of that it's something that the uh the legislature it ask for um but I'm concerned about taking uh that portion when you look at when you look at the overall population of Vermont uh that's part of our problem we have an aging demographic well there's there's less people less of our youth here and. when you have the the Healthy You Youth that is what drives down the cost in in places because they don't use the system them as much so we need more youth in the state in order to do that if you take that portion out for Dr Dynasaur you're going to elevate the cost of for everyone else from 26 to 65 
Vermont has one of the lowest crime rates in the nation and I'm not advocating for any changes in our gun laws I believe we we do it right here in Vermont I believe uh we should enforce the laws we have but I'm not advocating for any changes in our gun laws. 
first well certainly we have to uh recognize that the the dairy industry in particular is one of the most important industries as part of our traditional Heritage. uh is something that we need to protect when people come to Vermont recreate here to for tourism so forth they rely on uh the farmers the Dairy Farmers in particular to uh to have those uh uh those views and and so Forth. so we have to work hand in hand with them. we can't rely on on we can't force them into paying uh I know we've talked a lot about water quality here in Vermont and we need to clean up Lake Champlain but we can't put it on the backs of just the farmers.  we need We're All in This Together We need to uh to work together uh we've all benefited from the farming community over the last uh couple of uh centuries so we need to uh to protect them as well and recognize they're important part of our our economy 
well it is an issue right here in this state. a lack of faith and trust in government and and across our nation and uh when we see what's happening uh on the presidential scale it's uh it really is alarming. but what we can do is act appropriately uh when I years ago I didn't have a political bone in my body had no interest in politics but I started complaining about what was going on in Montpelier and decided to run myself stepped up I've been in the minority my whole political life for 16 years now but I've always been able to get something done because I've always been able to reach across the aisle bring consensus together bring people together.  and look to what what we should be doing we should be public servants not politicians you know that's what we need to do and just act appropriately. so when I've uh I was put in a position of leadership when I was in the Senate by uh then Senator Welch Congressman Welch and it wasn't because we agreed politically or philosophically but we trusted each other from a from a from a hand-to-hand basis I mean it was just it was just as simple as that you know just lack of faith and trust is what we need to rebuild.
