
Thank you all for being here. I appreciate that you’re here, and I appreciate the work that you all do. In fact, one of the great things about running for governor has been the chance during the course of this race to talk to mayors around Massachusetts, as well as organizations like CDC’s. And I remember the end of March, we had a great meeting with the terrific work that CDCs are doing in Massachusetts and actually gave me some of the ideas that are consistent with what plans are when I am governor for smart growth, for investing in our cities and towns in ways that make sense for those communities, taking into account many of the goals that you have for affordable housing, for investments in transportation, for making sure that as we grow our neighborhoods and our cities, uh, that we’re doing it in a way that’s respectful of the people that are there but with an eye towards growth. And in a general way, what’s important to me is making sure that we invest in early education and earn sick time for our workforce, to make sure that every kid has a chance to have a good education regardless of his or her zip code. And in that, given that I grew up in North Adams, I lived in a great neighborhood in Dorchester, I now live in West Medford, I know how important it is to have a focus on moving forward but coordinating the interests with your elected officials and your advocacy groups to take into account the affordability of the housing, what’s going to happen for our climate change goals. And I have been impressed with what the CDC has focused on in looking at all of those issues, coming to the table and moving ahead with a plan. I also think that it is incredibly important now, from the work I’ve done in my own personal experience, that as governor I would make it a priority to reduce stigma around mental and behavioral health and make sure that we move forward in Massachusetts to provide good physical and mental health care for everybody who needs it. Thank you.
So absolutely, and, uh, at the minimum level fund, but let’s talk about how and why we could invest more in that. I think every dollar that the state invests in that is paid off very well because we do know, particularly as we’re turning this economy around and trying to build a sustainable economy in our neighborhoods around, in our cities and towns, this ability to allow for new business owners, whether it’s women or entrepreneurs or people of color who haven’t had access to the supports they need to start their businesses, to keep them going, has been crucial. And because we know the ability to invest in a business, to grow wealth, to create equity, is part of the way we do a sustainable economic growth, that support to me makes total sense, and it’s been successful, obviously. I think I’m hopeful that we will need and can use even more as we look at our economy generally turning around. It’s a key point of my proposals and why I’m running for governor, because I do think that we have the opportunity now, with a stronger economy than most states across this country, to invest in our people, to invest in their opportunities to grow wealth by businesses. And particularly for people who haven’t had access, it is also the way I think we can sustain in neighborhoods where we want to see change, but we want to make sure that people were there aren’t displaced, whether it’s in Boston or New Bedford or Lawrence or North Adams, where I grew up. And so it’s been a good program. I think it has a terrific future, and I do think it’s a key way that we continue growth, particularly in small businesses.
One other thing I’d like to do, if we upgrade, and we need to upgrade, the technology that we use ourselves in government, is provide one place in the state where a new business owner can go to see what he or she needs to do to get started, and then work with our cities and towns about regulations or permits so that it’s easier to get started, and it’s easier to stay up, and it’s easier to keep going.
So first, that seems like a very reachable goal in terms of, again, investments in what I consider to be a very important part around the Commonwealth. We are probably short right now at least 50,000, uh, units of affordable housing. That’s a low end. We do have tools available. I’m probably the only candidate in the race who’s actually worked on a 40B project. I did, as a pro bono project when I was a starting lawyer, to build a project in Sharon. So I am aware of the tools that we do have now through 40B or 40T and some others. But it also involves, I think, what you do so well, is the planning and the capital that’s needed for it. But I do think that this fits in also with what my regional economic plan would be, to allow for half a billion dollars in the next 10 years that would, in 13 sections of the state, 400 million in infrastructure, maintaining, developing, uh, public transit, uh, and roads and bridges, but also a hundred million dollars in competitive grants that would let people in a region decide on your terms what would make most sense for use of that. Affordable housing may be one of them. It’s not limited to that. But my idea is, as yours is, is to let’s do the coordination and the local planning. I hope to be a good partner as governor in providing resources, changing zoning if we need to do that, permitting to make sure that many of the plans that you already have we can execute, particular around affordable housing. The need is great. It’s only going to get greater, I think. And we’ve talked through this race about homelessness, but also the need to keep and maintain our workforce here, and that’s going to be a key part of smart growth in every part of Massachusetts.
Absolutely. I mean, this has been a very effective program. It’s a good tool, particularly at the local level, and the CDC’s have taken good advantage of it. And I have seen, for instance, when you’re able to leverage that, you also then get the interest and the ability to leverage, uh, private investment. Good example is we’ve worked with some of the money we’ve brought back, uh, and the mortgage suits we brought against, uh, Wall Street. Not only did we put a lot of that into making sure we could keep people in their homes, to modify loans so that people weren’t foreclosed upon, we’ve also used some of those funds to make sure in all of our major cities we’ve helped bring back abandoned properties, looking at ways we can invest in, uh, homes that have been abandoned, deteriorated, but get them back on the market.
And so I think we’ve got a huge opportunity with a tool like this, particularly with all the planning that the CDC’s have done, to use that very, very effectively. And again, from the ground up, with the planning and the sort of multi-disciplinary approach you take to doing this, to make sure we’re doing it in a way that makes sense for those neighborhoods in those communities. It’s absolutely emblematic of the way I would work as governor, to be a good partner to CDC’s and to our cities and towns.
The answer may surprise you, but the answer is no. And the reason is this: I’m not going to wait till I get sworn in. When I, uh, am elected, and I hope to be successful on November 4th, I know from previous opportunities that I want to hit the ground running. And I hope I’ll be able to meet with everybody here before I get sworn in so that you can help advise me as I look at how we can be a better partner, how we set up our cabinet positions and who we put in them. And your input into what you’ve done already, what’s on the planning board, would be really important to me as I get ready to get sworn in.
We’ve got a lot of great work to do here in Massachusetts. I look forward to doing it with you as we move forward. So we’ll have a meeting well before I’m sworn in in January.
All right, and so we have limited time here on the agenda before MACDC and the candidates have limited time, other engagements to get to. Martha Coakley, thank you for your time this morning.
Thank you very much, everybody. Have a great weekend.

