
 
 Thank you very much, and welcome to our viewers tonight. I just wanted to mention that our thoughts certainly go out to Angela and Tom Menino tonight. And I’m delighted to be here to talk to you about why I’m running for governor. Having grown up in northern Berkshire County in the 1950s into the mid-’70s, I know exactly what happened when those shoe factories and mills started closing, when Sprague Electric and GE closed in Pittsfield, and when I saw that it was much harder to get good hospital care and good communication and good transportation. It’s why I firmly believe that my economic development plan can help turn this economy around for everybody in Massachusetts and every region of Massachusetts — not just Boston and Cambridge — to make sure that we invest in early education and earned sick time and the education that kids need, good mental health and behavioral health care. And I know that if we put investments in our workforce and our kids, we can be prosperous and fair here in Massachusetts. 
Thank you, Colleen, for that question. I have said since this campaign began that I would not vote to repeal this gaming statute. I’ve worked really closely to put together the statutory and regulatory oversight so that we can recognize the economic value and mitigate the social ills — making sure that we passed a money-laundering statute, for instance, in Massachusetts. I know particularly for western Mass that this can be a key piece of a regional economic development plan. It’s not the only thing that we need out here, but it can be successful. I do think we’ll know on November 4th what the voters decide, but I have said — as I know my opponent has said — that I would consider, even if it’s repealed, some way to allow, as part of a regional economic development plan, a casino to go forward here in western Massachusetts.
I have talked throughout this campaign about the importance — and really the success — of building a regional economic development plan, because I do think that the four western counties, for instance, have different interests and needs than the Merrimack Valley or the South Coast. Being able to set aside half a billion dollars over the next ten years to invest in infrastructure — which we know has been ignored somewhat over the last tough recession — and allow for $100 million in competitive grants. For example, as Mayor Morse told me, he would use that to redo the Victory Theater, which I’m going to go visit tomorrow in Holyoke. I believe there’s great opportunity out here for the return of precision manufacturing, for smart farming. I heard about a company that was looking in Lee, Massachusetts, to bring precision manufacturing back to one building and then buy another building for housing. I think that’s very exciting — to be able to build a sustainable economy. But the piece that’s really important is workforce development. That’s why I support early education and increasing our aid to vocational-tech schools so that we can have the workforce to do those jobs.
Sure. Well I have said I don't support that particular proposal. I don't think it's the right plan for western Massachusetts, and I have been for the last eight years the ratepayer advocate here bringing back 700 million dollars to consumers, changing the law so that when we recover monies it does go back to people, holding the line on Wamiko and Unitil and National Grid even when they were trying to pass along consumers costs that they weren't entitled to. We have had over the last eight years spikes in costs, and we are farther along than I think anybody thought we would be even three or four years ago in terms of moving away from coal to natural gas and increasing our ability to use alternative energy and develop clean and frankly good economic drivers with wind and solar. I believe that we have the opportunity now and we need to address it with other states, and I will as governor look at how we can apply and use the skills we have now to make sure that we have enough natural gas and continue to move towards energy efficiency and clean alternative energy.
Well I think the number is down to 1800, and we know particularly in Holyoke and Chicopee the numbers are almost near 200, 100, 5200, and Springfield has a large number also. I've heard this as I've traveled around the state. It is unacceptable. We have too many families and frankly too many kids who are moving from hotels. They don't have stability, and it is expensive. And certainly looking at some of the root causes of why this is true, one of it is people have lost their homes to a foreclosure crisis. We have people who have been evicted, been foreclosed upon, so we are needing to address that issue. And we also have issues around serious mental health and other issues that cause people to be homeless. But particularly for children, it's got to be a priority to work with local communities, identify that number, get at those root causes, and make sure they are able to as soon as possible get these families stable in affordable either rental or other housing in Massachusetts.
Well let me just say I firmly believe that I don't want kids going hungry. I don't want people going without assistance when they need it. But I also don't have much tolerance for people who cheat the system, and I frankly have a record of going after convenience stores that have been engaged in EBT fraud. That's how it happens. We have held them accountable. We got a jail sentence on a convenience store owner. And I say going forward, anybody who's involved in that kind of fraud, facilitating that kind of fraud, shouldn't have a lottery license, shouldn't be able to sell alcohol and tobacco. So we can crack down on that. I also have gone after individuals who have been collecting unemployment while they're working, and I'm going to continue to make sure that we don't have acceptance for people who flout the rules. Have better oversight and accountability for that. We need to do that. And I understand that that's the work I've been doing as attorney general, and I'll work with the auditor and the inspector general to make sure that we do that.
Well it should get done, but it's not the only thing that needs to get done because we've not had the opportunity over the last several years with the recession. And frankly we talked about it during this campaign, but a lot of projects got put on hold because of Big Dig financing that my Republican opponent was involved in. And so it is time to invest and make funds available because we're not going to have the economic turnaround that we want. It's why I do support the indexing of the gas tax, as do the Mass Taxpayers Association, most businesses and business leaders in Massachusetts, because they know we need that predictable way to move forward on projects like the South Coast Rail, on fixing our roads and bridges, and frankly increasing our public transit. And so if we are going to do that, we need those funds. And I'd certainly support that particular project, the I-91 viaduct. We talked about it a lot out here, but there is a lot of other work that needs to be done not just in Springfield, Holyoke and Chicopee, but around the state.
Oh boy. We’ve been on the trail since last September. My husband and I, he’s here with me tonight, and I have to say that the times in which I’m able to stop and talk with people in diners and talk to people one-on-one about not just what I want but what they are looking forward to in the next governor, I think I’ve met people who are very optimistic about where we’re going. I think they’re concerned, obviously, but I think they feel the economy is turning around and they just want to get a fair shot. I really enjoy the one-on-one conversations with people and the ability to see what people’s hopes and dreams are for them and for their kids, and it’s what’s exciting me about running for governor.
Sure. Charlie, you’ve (my opponent) chosen Karen Polito as your running mate, and although she’s been implicated in an ethics scandal involving her campaign donors and family who got special access to collector plates intended for the public, she’s praised the Tea Party, uh, and hers the standard-bearer Alan West. She has a listings from the NRA. Do you agree with Karen Palito’s Tea Party philosophy, and if not can you name one thing that you absolutely disagree with her about?
Well, she does have a hundred percent or an a-list reading from the NRA, so I take it by your answer, Charlie (my opponent), you mean that you are in sync with Karen and there’s nothing you disagree with her about?
Sure. Um, Charlie (my opponent), you have spent time in state government. You mentioned that early tonight. You’ve said that you’ve enjoyed it. It’s one of the reasons that you’re running for governor. Um, but under your (my opponent) time as under secretary and secretary, didn’t you eliminate 700 workers at the department of mental health and then under fund the private contractor that you (my opponent) outsource the core of some of those services to, and I guess my question would be what do you (my opponent) say to those 700 people who lost their jobs or the thousands of people at that time who were forced to wait for critical mental health care?
You know, Charlie (my opponent), I beg to differ because to disagree that’s actually not what the record shows and that 60 percent of the funds at most were committed to people who did need outsourced services. They needed community services. You lost 700 jobs. You fired 700 people and didn’t provide the concomitant services the people needed in their communities, and we are still to this day living with some of the vestiges of that 20 years later.
Yeah, well I think that that idea of taking those jobs and putting them into the community didn’t really compensate for what people needed, and you (my opponent) can talk about the bipartisan commission, but it is still about what we need to do to make sure if we’re going to de-institutionalize people what supports we provide for them, and it to me it doesn’t include cutting jobs and not giving people the support they need in the community.
Okay, well I’ll keep on my theme then. So let’s talk about Harvard Pilgrim because we know that you had a tough turnaround job to do, but when you’re (my opponent) at Harvard Pilgrim you (my opponent) eliminated thousands of jobs. There were 3 500 seniors out in western Massachusetts who were taken off medicare who didn’t have that, and you increased premiums by 150 percent and saw your salary raised to 1.7 million dollars in a not-for-profit. Charlie  (my opponent), why did you think it was okay to accept a huge raise while making decisions with such a negative impact on so many families?
Well then I have 30 seconds then in there in our format, so let me just respond then. By 2006, Harvard Pilgrim had essentially been stabilized and turned around. Your (my opponent) salary was at 1.5 million dollars, and you made a decision to send at least 200 jobs to India. How do you (my opponent), uh, justify that getting rid of those jobs and outsourcing and getting an outsourcing award in excellence?
So Charlie (my opponent) , in fairness, I’ve been part of that system and I have suffered those 22 C cuts that we’ve done that voluntarily. We tried to spread it among the people I had control of so nobody got fired, nobody got laid off. We went through at the time Governor Weld was there when everybody had to take a furlough, and we all suffered through that time period. I understand what I’m talking about though are vital services for people who are mentally ill, seniors who need medical care, those people who don’t have any other options, and I still think that when you talk about 200 jobs that your subcontractor then outsourced to India at a time when Harvard Pilgrim had been turned around, they’re not decisions I would have made. They impact those families and people negatively.
Yeah, Charlie (my opponent) , I’ve talked for a long time since I worked in the child abuse unit when Governor Weld was there and budgets got cut.
Because I have talked during this campaign through the primary and through the general about the very much important issues of looking at our chapter 70 foundation and making sure that the quality of a kid’s education doesn’t depend on the zip code that they’re in, investing in early education, by the way for kids who can’t get it now, making sure that we invest in the stem technology and the curriculum that our kids need for those jobs of tomorrow, and I’ve talked with mayors around the state about the need to make sure that we level the playing field for them because we’re all coming out of this tough recession based upon a Wall Street that gambled with our money, and my economic plan gives all that discretion in the local regions to mayors and others to say this is what is going to help us re restore what we need to do here in our cities and towns.
Sure. So Charlie (my opponent), this is important to me and I think it is to voters also. You  (my opponent) are currently the subject of an ongoing pay-to-play investigation and violation of that rule involving rep the republican governor Chris Christie, who’s head of the national republican governors association. That association has spent already eight million dollars in this race, including seventy percent of that negative against my candidacy. You’ve refused to require the release of the investigation report until after the election so that voters could know whether you violated that law or not. And more importantly and more simply, you’ve refused to turn over your employment contract with your employees, which would resolve the question. Why should people trust you when you won’t make it clear that you’re not involved in the appearance or a conflict of interest in this important issue?
Well, in some ways it looks a little bit like pay to play and then delay, but as far as I’m concerned, Charlie (my opponent), you could easily resolve this question by turning over your employment contract. And why in 2012 when you were supporting Scott Brown you insisted that Elizabeth Warren should turn over her employment contract on an issue of much less significant to voters, why is it different for her than for you?
I think that as we look at the levels of education that we have available now, my goal has been and I’ve said clearly that I do want every kid to get the best education regardless of their zip code, and I know that because of the forfeiture crisis and because cities and towns are struggling because the state isn’t playing a role with chapter 70 foundation money that we need to step that up, but I also think that what’s important, Charlie, is that we as we see what we’ve seen from our charter schools and extended learning time, investing in early education, giving kids the opportunity to do well, doing that science technology engineering math and art music I think is important that we should be working to get those practices into every community. I don’t think you and I disagree with this. I’m just willing to invest in it, and I think you (my opponent) just talk about it.

Mrs. Coakley, it’s your turn for a question.
Sure. So let’s talk a little bit about the big dig, Charlie, because that is something that you were involved with while you were in government, and and frankly when I came in as attorney general it was one of the first things I had to deal with straightening out. On August 26 1998, uh, you (my opponent) were the top budget chief at the time. You wrote a memo that said that the rate of big dig spending was quote amazing, uh, and that it threatened the spending in every part of the state thereafter because it was so high. You also said in that memo though don’t tell the public about the runaway spending and the draconian cuts until after the election for your boss the re-election question, yep. How do you justify hiding this information for the public for political purposes?

Well, for for many of us, and I’m not alone, uh, that was a funding, uh, project that kicked the can down the road that we’re still paying the price for now, and the memo said specifically do not let the public know about this until after the election, so I I don’t think that’s transparency when you have the opportunity to be transparent with the public about what the effects on our spending on infrastructure were going to be, uh, as a result of the way the big dig was financed.
Well, Charlie, that completely disingenuous in terms of the assumptions you’ve (my opponent) made. You and I shared the stage last week, uh, I have said I hope taxes go down. I’ve never said I will raise taxes. And you by the way, although you did in 2010 have taken no new taxes pledge here this time around and you talk about a lot of investments, but to my positions I agree with you that as the economy increases and moves up we will see the income tax go down to five percent. I agree with that, and I also believe that as we look at and I’ve talked about this increased efficiencies on way we deliver services, providing more mental health up front for instance rather than waiting till people are in a very expensive house of correction, I believe there are lots of ways that we can cut costs and deliver services better to people. The only thing I have said, the only thing I’ve said is that if the legislature and the people of Massachusetts want to make investments then I would look to do it in a way that does not impact the middle class or those who can least afford it. I’ve never said I will raise taxes, and I believe right now that I hope we don’t have to.

Another one. Sure. Charlie (my opponent), I support earn sick time for every worker because I think no one should have to choose between having a job, going to a job, or losing it because they have a sick child or they themselves are sick. So my question to you is you put out a plan that would support some sick time but still leaves 1.2 million people in Massachusetts without any earned sick time. I guess my question to you is a ceo at Harvard or indeed at any job I assume you’ve always had her in sick time, and why should people who have less financial opportunities than you have to be treated differently in this area?
Well, so Charlie, if the voters do agree with me that it’s only fair to provide everybody earn sick time and they pass that, will you (my opponent) implement that and respect that decision?
So Charlie, let’s be fair about what I said and what I didn’t say. I did not get involved in that negotiation. I still don’t know exactly what the circumstances are and what that means in terms of cost of the government. I haven’t said I’ve okayed that, and I do believe that those are kinds of decisions that the governor should be transparent about until and unless we get that transparency, and I think he should be because I do think voters are owed exactly what that was. I know this has been an issue on the table for a long time, but I just don’t think you should quote me, uh, according to what your talking points are as opposed to what I actually said.
Yeah, absolutely. I’ve done that and I would do that of course.
Okay. So, uh, Charlie, back in 2010, uh, you seem to be still focused on cutting jobs, and this was something that you talked about in 2010 as a linchpin of some of the reforms you would bring to state government. You said that at that time in the midst of one of the worst recessions we were engaged in that you would fire 5000 people if you were elected governor as there was a cornerstone of your campaign. So what do you say to people who might think now that one of your first instincts as a manager whether in business or in private sector is to come in and to try and fire people and outsource?
And you think that the people that the 700 dmh workers who were let go and fired when you came in would say the same thing to you?
Well, I actually just addressed this earlier when the question came in from one of the audience members, and we’ve talked about it extensively at least in the primary because I think all the democratic primary candidates for governor agreed this is not acceptable, and I’ve talked about getting at root problems, getting vouchers for people, planning in those communities. I know Chicopee has 160 families right now. Holyoke has 195 families who are homeless. That is crisis for them and for their children, and I would work, and I said earlier tonight I’d work with the mayors, I’d work with those communities to move those families as quickly as possible to stable affordable housing with state help if we need it, but most importantly to also deal with underlying issues like mental health issues and substance abuse that often complicate these circumstances.
Last question. Okay. Um, Charlie, you’ve said that you don’t like the indexing of the gas tax. Without this, which is projected to generate billions in transportation funding over the next decade, how do you propose to fund critical transportation products projects like the i-91 viaduct, increased computer rail to Boston, which you said you support, the south coast rail, and greater funding for local regional transportation authorities, which we know we need? Where does that come from?
Well, that’s a bad habit is when we got into when the big dig financing, frankly, and your proposal doesn’t allow then for paying for south coast rail if you’re just talking about that. You know the priorities in the state for just fixing infrastructure are going to take up all of that amount of money. You’re not going to be able to do new public transit under that proposal. 
So thank you. I do think for voters that this is going to be about values, choosing a leader for the next governor of Massachusetts who will make decisions based upon good investments in our people and our workforce and on the issues that people need help with, including mental health. Many of you have heard me talk about my brother. I’m not going to repeat the whole story tonight, but growing up in North Adams he showed signs of depression, and after my folks were gone he would get no help. He had a stigma attached to it, and he took his life 18 years ago this month. I think we need more help for behavioral mental health problems here. I’m committed to doing that. On a happier note, I also know we’ve made great progress in education. It’s one of the things really important to me. Visiting Walden High School not too long ago, kids there first generation speak 70 languages. They were learning coding from their teacher Paul Marks, and they said Mr. Marx teaches us how to walk and we learn how to fly, and I thought that’s what we want for all of our teachers and our kids here in Massachusetts to take part in what can be a great opportunity for Massachusetts to be prosperous and fair. Thank you very much.

