

Well, good evening, and I want to thank you as well for hosting this evening’s discussion. And I also want to send my thoughts and prayers to the Menino family on this particular evening. I’m running for governor because I believe state government needs to work better. It needs to work better for the taxpayers who pay the bills. It needs to work better for the people who work in state government. And it especially needs to work better for the people who depend on it every single day for a variety of services. In many ways, what I bring to this table is a broad record with respect to serving in local government. I served in two successful administrations — the Bill Weld and the Paul Cellucci administrations — where we grew our economy by 500,000 jobs and went from having the highest unemployment rate in the country to the lowest unemployment rate over the course of that decade. I also spent years in the private sector turning around Harvard Pilgrim, which became the number one-ranked health plan in the country for the last seven years I was there for customer service and member satisfaction. And I’m running in large part because I consider myself to be one of the lucky ones. I’m one of those folks who has benefited from the great things Massachusetts brings to the table every day, and I want everybody to have that opportunity.

I also plan to vote no on the casino repeal question. I’ve actually walked the site in Springfield and had an opportunity to take a look at how that proposal was going to work here. I must say, the idea of bringing that proposal to that part of Springfield — which was hit by the tornado — and creating that streetscape that’s been talked about as part of this proposal is one of the more innovative proposals I’ve seen. In addition to that, the idea of hooking it up with the Civic Center and making it possible for MGM to use its global reach to bring entertainment acts to the Civic Center and turn that into a showpiece as part of their empire, I think, is a huge opportunity for this region. And while I do plan to vote no on that question, if the question does pass, I’ve said that I would like to revisit the Springfield proposal with the Legislature and see if we can’t move that forward. 

Thank you very much for that question. I put out a very comprehensive and specific economic development plan — it’s available on our website at charliebaker2014.com. I bring a couple of things up here, one is that I believe the way to do this is to build on the strengths in each region. That’s where our opportunity to be successful is. In this region, just to pick an example, there are 3,000 machinists working in the Pioneer Valley. It’s a big part of the aerospace industry. The big issue people have out here is they can’t find enough skilled people. I think Massachusetts — and I would do this as governor — needs to work aggressively with the local employers, the community colleges, and the vocational-tech schools to make sure that we have the skilled people to fill those jobs, because you can build quite a career there. I also think we need to clean up our regulatory environment. We’re a very tough state to do business in. I hear that from small businesses, mid-sized businesses, and I hear it from all businesses. And I also don’t think we should raise taxes. I think the voters and businesses in Massachusetts pay enough in taxes, and we need to hold the line there.


Yeah. I think if the attorney general (my opponent)and the administration have been aggressive about dealing with this natural gas issue over the course of the previous four years, we might not have to talk about the Kinder Morgan proposal. I also don't support the Kinder Morgan proposal, but I also think we need to recognize that the big reason why people's electricity bills are going to go up by 30, 40, maybe even 50 percent this winter is because we didn't as a commonwealth approve the expansion of our existing natural gas pipelines, simply taking them from three feet in diameter to four feet in diameter, which would have made it possible for us to continue to access domestically produced clean burning natural gas. I'm also a big fan of the Canadian hydro project, which I've talked about for many years, and I'm glad to see the New England governors, including Governor Patrick here in Massachusetts, moving ahead with that particular proposal. That's one where the New England governors ought to work together because that does create a huge opportunity to generate clean, sustainable, renewable and competitively priced energy for people throughout New England, including here in Massachusetts.
Well I'm glad you asked this question because when I joined the Weld administration in 1991 there were 1400 families living in hotels and motels in Massachusetts, which we called a human tragedy. And working with local housing authorities, local housing developers, community development corporations and others over the course of 18 months, we brought that number down to zero, getting those families and those children back into the communities they were from where they had most of their supports. And that number stayed at zero for a very long period of time. I was dismayed to see that number go up as it has over the course of the past few years, and last December we put out a comprehensive proposal to take that number back down to zero, again doing the kinds of things that we did in the early 90s to get people back in the communities they belong in, where their supports are, and to help them find their ways into work and self sufficiency. And I would love to have an opportunity to do that again as governor. The number total statewide is now approaching 2500. I think it's an outrage in every way you could possibly describe it, and it'll be a very high priority for me having done it once before.
You know, I hear a lot about this when I'm out on the campaign trail, and I hear it a lot from working families, mostly in cities. And it's one of those things where they basically say I get up every morning, I work one job, I work two jobs, I play by the rules, I do the right thing, and then I see story after story associated with people defrauding the system. I get no problem with people who are entitled to benefits accessing benefits and using them in the appropriate way. But we clearly have work to do here, and the people on Beacon Hill who think we've accomplished our objectives on this are simply mistaken. And some of the things we probably ought to consider doing going forward, in addition to what's been done, and by the way this is a great example of bipartisan reform, there have been a series of initiatives over the course of the past several years, Republicans and Democrats working together to address many of these issues. But we still have a long way to go on this issue to truly be successful and to basically be in a position where we can look those working families in the eye that I've talked to over the course of this campaign and say we're doing everything we can.
Well the I-91 project is one that the Department of Transportation is currently moving forward on. They're doing the preliminary studies on that, and it's one that I support and will move forward as governor to make happen. And by the way, there are also opportunities to incorporate some of the work associated with building the casino into sort of the redirection of that interchange as well and make it possible to bring some of the waterfront back to the city, which I think is an important objective there as well. One of the other things I would say about this is that project in particular I believe we'll be able to get significant federal funding to support, and it will be right on the top of my to-do list because it should have happened a long time ago and it should get done, and it will get done in a Baker administration.
Thank you very much. Um, you know, we’ve had a good exchange of ideas during the first part of this debate, so I’d actually like to ask a slightly different kind of question. I know I certainly love this state, and I know you do too, and the campaign has brought me to some of the greatest places in the Commonwealth. I’m curious to know which campaign stop of yours might stand out most in your mind.
Well, I thought I might just pick a place in Springfield since we’re here. I visited the Veritas Prep Charter School, which is a middle school run by founded and run by Rachel Romano, who’s a real powerhouse. She was a teacher in the Springfield school system who decided she wanted to do something a little different, and the thing that made this such an interesting visit was her school is located in a nursing home. She drove by the nursing home and somehow she saw a middle school in it, and they’re doing great and it’s a terrific school, and I just remember thinking to myself we have so many clever, imaginative, creative and great people in this state. I think I just learned something tonight about my region.
You know, it’s funny the little rumors that get started about people in public life, which I’m sure our attorney general (my opponent) knows as well as anybody and I do as well. If you look at Karen Polito’s voting record, it’s what I would describe as your classic Massachusetts Republican voting record. She had a 100 percent rating from Neral. She voted for the health care reform law. She voted to support the override of Governor Romney’s veto on stem cell reaches research. She voted for the regional green green energy bill. She voted for the clean energy bill. Karen is a terrific campaigner and a great public servant, and as is often the case in politics people put all kinds of labels on people that don’t mean anything. They don’t apply to her.
Oh no, there’s, I mean, look, let’s face it. Karen and I agree on many things. We don’t agree on things, um, but she and I both supported the legislation that was passed most recently during the legislative session on gun control for a number of reasons. One was it finally brought Massachusetts in line and connected us to the national mental health registry, which we needed to be connected to on background checks. It expanded and increased the penalties for gun crime here in Massachusetts, which was important, and it also created the first task force to deal with illegal gun trafficking, which is something that’s a big problem in many places, especially out here.
You know, that was one of the things I heard over and over from people from people during the transition that year, was how much we needed to do something about reforming our mental health system and finding ways to get people who belonged in the community out of decrepit and in some cases dangerous state institutions and into more appropriate community-based settings. The advocacy community was looking for that, and so were many other folks involved in the mental health patient movement. So we created a commission, a bipartisan commission, Democrats and Republicans leaders in the field, 18 members who voted 17-1 to move forward on a plan to consolidate our facility system and actually maximize the way we used a number of the state facilities. For example, Tewksbury ended up significantly expanding its footprint and creating a significant number of jobs at Tewksbury to take over the inpatient services that had been provided previously in Denver’s, and we also created thousands of jobs in the community for people as well, and we did the right thing by creating home and community based opportunities for many people with mental illness who actually belong in the community.
And for most part, no, I mean, I just 20 years later for the most part the system that we built and put in place on a bipartisan basis during that period is still operating today. Does it have flaws? Can it be improved on? You bet. 17-1, that commission, Democrats and Republicans and leaders in the field voted to support that plan. That’s the way you create consensus and move forward on reform.
We’re getting a little confused here, so what would you like to do, Mr. time cop? 
So I kind of blew it with respect to my question. Well I should just go ahead and let her (my opponent) ask her question and we can go from there. 
You know, I took the job at Harvard Pilgrim to save thousands of jobs, which is exactly what happened here in the Commonwealth of the Mass. Harvard Pilgrim went into receivership shortly after I took the job running that organization, and everybody knew it was going to go into receivership because it was in the process of losing 200 million dollars, and we had to make some tough decisions to rescue it. They were tough. In fact, I said in the first debate that the toughest decision I’ve ever made as a person, as a professional, was removing our operation in Rhode Island. But we made sure everybody who was in active treatment continued to have active treatment and transition. We made sure everybody who worked for us who lost their job got outplaced in counseling, and the vast majority of them got jobs, and we made sure that everybody we owed money to got paid, and we saved that company, and we saved thousands of jobs at Harvard Pilgrim, thousands of jobs at Harvard Vanguard, and thousands of jobs in eastern Massachusetts, and most importantly of all we also protected and preserved health care coverage for millions of people in Massachusetts, New Hampshire and Maine, and some of your most significant supporters, attorney general (my opponent), are big fans of what we did and what we accomplished.
Okay, we never sent any jobs to India. Just fyi.
Well, just this is sort of an interesting, um, question given our previous conversation. You’ve criticized the decisions I’ve made to save Harvard Pilgrim, and those criticisms have been rejected by many people in the media and even some of your most significant supporters. Governor Patrick has made similarly tough budget decisions, making hundreds of millions of dollars in emergency cuts to the state budget. Those cuts included laying off thousands of state employees and cuts to services for seniors, the homeless, dcf and mental health care. Did you (my opponent) object to those cuts when they were made, and do you think those decisions mean Governor Patrick doesn’t have the right kind of character to be a good governor?
There was a lawsuit filed against the Commonwealth that raised some pretty significant questions about the quality of care at dcf in 2010. Governor Patrick cut the dcn, which was obviously a lawsuit that you (my opponent)  were quite familiar with. Governor Patrick, to balance the budget, cut the dcf budget by 40 million dollars that spring. Did you (my opponent)  say anything about the fact that he was cutting the budget by 40 million dollars at the point in time when you knew  (my opponent)  there were significant issues in service delivery at dcf?
Who’s next? Who’s asking the next question?
Over the last seven years state aid to our cities and towns has been cut by 400 million in order to pay for increases in state spending. Over the same time the state budget has increased by almost 10 billion dollars. As a former local official, I’ve made a pledge in this campaign to end the cuts to local aid, to not support any more unfunded mandates on our cities and towns, and to increase local aid as state revenue increases. I know that our cities and towns will use those dollars to invest in teachers, first responders, property tax relief for our families and seniors. Is a request I’m wondering why you (my opponent) haven’t made the same pledge.
This question about local aid and state tax revenue, it was the first question the mass municipal association asked every candidate for governor at their forum back in January. They said it was their number one concern, and I came out and supported it because I think we can’t be great partners to our Commonwealth cities and towns if we don’t share the growth in state tax revenue with them. We will not be a great state starving our communities.
You know, I’ve been completely transparent on this issue from the beginning. I hired the former general counsel of the federal election commission when this issue was raised. I gave him my employment contract and all the documentation associated with this and said if there’s anything I need to do to correct what’s happened here let me know. He wrote me a very long and very detailed response to that, which I made available to the public, that said I didn’t need to take any corrective action. He didn’t believe I violated any statutes. I also released my tax returns, thereby letting everybody know exactly what my relationship was with general catalyst, and I’ve controlled what I can control, and I consider the matter for all intents and purposes to be resolved on my end. You (my opponent) of all people know that it takes a long time to do investigations. I’m sure that when that investigation is finished it will be released, and I’ll look forward to seeing it just as much as everybody else will.
I don’t ever remember doing that, but the the simple fact is I’ve turned all the documentation I believe I can turn over and made it public.
Education is something that we’ve both talked a lot about during the course of this race, and it’s something I would obviously make a top priority as governor. Right now there are eight level one and level two elementary schools in Springfield, which means they perform significantly above the statewide average. Why do you think there are no level one or two middle schools or high schools in Springfield, and what do you think we could do about that?
Maybe I was a little too, um, nuanced in the question I was asking. There are a lot of good elementary schools in Springfield. What seems to be the issue is what happens in middle school and in high school. One of the things we need to do is model some of the work that’s being done in the elementary schools here, which clearly is succeeding in educating kids in many difficult circumstances, and make what’s working there more readily available and accessible to folks in the middle and the high school. One of the things we don’t do enough of in education generally is is scale best practices and model what works, and I think Springfield would be a great place to pursue that because they do have some good schools here.
That was a planning memo. Organizations write planning memos. It’s one of the most important things you can do when you’re dealing with a difficult topic. In that particular planning memo what I was laying out was a series of choices that Governor Celucci, if he were to be re-elected, was going to have to deal with, and my view on that I wrote dozens of planning memos in the summer of every single year during that administration, and the reason I wrote memos during the summer of every single year was because you wanted to start planning and discussing what you were going to do with the coming new year. That was nothing more than one more planning memo just like many others, and I’ve heard a lot of stuff about the big dig over the course of my two campaigns now for governor, a project by the way which started when I was in college and ended long after I got out of government. The project financing that I put in place working with the Clinton administration and with the legislature led by democrats worked, and it was exactly the same kind of project financing that Governor Patrick used to fund his accelerated bridge reconstruction program, which everybody really seems to like.
I do. Thank you. I knew you would. Throughout the campaign you’ve routinely said that you’re open to increasing taxes like the income tax and the sales tax and the gas tax, and to be fair you’ve also cited investing in a number of programs about 1.5 billion dollars worth of investments. I oppose more tax increases because I worry about the burden they’ll put on already stressed family budgets as well as the detrimental effect they’ll have on creating jobs. It’s clear you don’t believe we’re taxing enough right now, and with that position in mind how much would be enough if you’re governor?
I guess I say two things. One is you have said you support the automatic increase in the gas tax, which will go up every year forever without anybody ever having to vote on it again. I don’t support that, not because I’m opposed necessarily to some increase at some point, but because I think the legislature should have to stand up and vote if they want to raise taxes and then be held accountable at the voting box. And yes, I have taken a pledge not to raise taxes. I haven’t signed a no new taxes pledge because I do want to be able to simplify the tax code if we have the ability to do it, but I think it’s pretty clear to voters that I don’t want to raise taxes, and you’ve (my opponent) said that you will.
Like you, I support earned sick time, but I do worry about the impact on very small businesses associated with a one-size-fits-all policy. There are only two other states in the country that actually have an earned sick time policy statewide. One is Connecticut and the other is California and the state of connect, and both of them have far more flexibility for small businesses and exemptions for certain kinds of businesses than this law does here in Massachusetts. I made a proposal on this issue that I think will do a better job of covering the vast majority of people without creating disruption and unintended consequences here in the Commonwealth for people. I also worry a lot about many of those businesses that operate informal flex programs where they basically put sick time, personal time, vacation time together into one package and basically make that the way they provide flexibility to their workers. Under this particular proposal I think many many workers in existing firms are going to lose something they already have that works for them.
Absolutely. I’m a big believer in the initiative petition process.
I only have to find one. Um, okay, I found one. Thank you. As Governor Patrick’s term ends, he made an 11th hour decision to reclassify 500 management appointees into gov into a government employee union. This move will guarantee they can’t be replaced by the next administration and will be eligible for three three percent raises in the next two years. It’s anticipated to cost the state about five hundred thousand dollars. Originally you said you had no problem with it, but then the other night during our debate you (“my opponent) changed your mind. I’d like to know why you changed your mind with respect to that decision, and will you call on Governor Patrick right now to be more transparent about this?
Why don’t you (my opponent) do that with me too? Um, I think the most interesting thing about that particular issue was it came out originally you said that’s a gubernatorial decision, I don’t have a problem with that, and then the other night during the debate you said you thought you did have a problem with it. You were concerned about the transparency. I guess I would just ask you the original question, which is will you call on the governor right now to be more transparent and to put out there exactly what happened and who’s affected?
I’m very proud of the work I did when I was in state government and I’m very proud of the work I’ve done in my other settings during my professional career, and in most of the cases I’ve been involved in unless I had to make very difficult decisions, which sometimes leaders are required to make very difficult decisions similar to the ones that Governor Patrick had to make during the fiscal crisis here in the Commonwealth, I’ve been able to grow jobs and to save jobs and create economic opportunity. One of the things I’m proudest of during my time at Harvard Pilgrim is for the last seven years I was there Harvard Pilgrim was rated as the best place to work in Boston every single year. I think state workers are terrific. I know many of them. I talk to them all the time. What they tell me they want more than anything right now is active aggressive leadership from the governor’s office every single day so that they can have the kind of guidance and the kind of support that they need to do the important work they do on behalf of the people of this state, and I’m prepared to give it to them.
We gave all those folks as much outplacement as we possibly could, but as I said previously that bipartisan commission made a recommendation which I thought was a good one to consolidate the state’s facility system, and by the way a lot of the folks who worked at Denver’s were able to transfer over to Tewksbury, which was a good thing, and we created many jobs in the community as well as we moved folks from institutions they didn’t belong in. Remember the fir the first —
Thank you sir.
Um, yesterday this is sort of a follow-up in some respects to one of yours. Yesterday the mayor of Chicopee told me about the tragic situation of homeless families in his city and how the state has failed to address this situation. Nearly a year ago I put out a plan to help homeless families and address the tragedy of thousands of homeless families in hotels and motels here in Massachusetts. My plan followed up on the work I did in the wild and salucy administrations that won awards from national homeless advocates and got every homeless family out of hotels and motels. So far I don’t think you’ve released a plan to address this problem specifically. What would be your plan?
Most important thing you need to do to solve this problem is you need to have case managers day after day after day working directly with these families to figure out what their issues and their problems and their circumstances are, and then those case managers need to work directly with the folks back in the communities that these people are from with the public housing folks and the housing development people and the community development people to find opportunities and availability for housing and homelessness homeless home services on these people. The biggest single issue you have to do here is you have to be in —
In my economic development plan I talked about establishing what I call a pay-as-you-go fund for basic repairs, maintenance and state of good repair transportation spending. Massachusetts shouldn’t be borrowing money to pay for basic repair and state of good repair services. That’s the sort of thing that families and others would pay for out of their operating budget. My proposal is to put 25 million in the first year, 50 in the second, 75 in the third and 100 in the fourth and then to stay at that hundred going forward to fund those basic maintenance repair and state of good repair services. We shouldn’t be borrowing money to pay for that stuff. That was a bad habit we got into as a Commonwealth. We should be funding that stuff out of general fund, and if you and frankly if you do it my way I think in the short term and probably in the long term you get a better result than you do just raising the gas tax on drivers and businesses every year here in the Commonwealth with no accountability.
The notion that somehow south coast rail has to have an automatic gas tax inflator and afford to work is simply a red herring, and i would hope the people of southeastern Massachusetts understand.
Thank you very much. I want to thank WLWLP, and I want to thank the people of Springfield for turning in this evening. This is a great state. It’s filled with wonderful people. I see them every day as I travel around the Commonwealth and have an opportunity to talk to them about their hopes and their dreams and their worries and their fears, but we need to do more to create jobs. We need to do more to make sure we have great schools in every community, and we need to do more to bring the kind of bipartisan balance to Beacon Hill that has been so lacking for the past few years. I want state government to work. I want it to work for the people who pay the bills, and I want it to work for the people who depend on the services that are provided by the Commonwealth. As a former local official and a former state official and a health care executive who took a plan from receivership the number one in the country, I think I have the skill set and the ability to get the job done and to deliver the kind of great Commonwealth that the people of this state deserve as thrifty and as hard working and as creative as they are. Thank you very much.



