Well, you know, I came to Kansas 32 years ago. We made the decision to move here. I grew up in a military family, moved all over the world, and so when my husband and I had our first child, we really wanted to establish some very deep roots, and we saw Kansas as the place to do that. There were good jobs available, a very strong sense of community, and terrific public schools. And my daughters both got a world-class education in our schools because of them and the teachers. And I’m running for governor because I want to make sure that every child, no matter who they are or where they live, has the same opportunities to succeed that my daughters did.
I think there are three major issues that I’m hearing from constituents. Obviously, education is number one, but also our infrastructure, whether it’s roads or broadband, is the second, and thirdly it’s healthcare. They want Medicaid expansion. They want it now. Those are the kinds of things that, when I’m governor, I’ll make sure that we can do. We’ve had to cut all of those kinds of things because of the Brownback tax experiment that really took our state down a road of devastation. Whether you’re looking at our roads, our healthcare, or our economy, we need to reverse that. That’s what I’ll do as governor.
I would. You know, I agree that the economy needs to grow, but what we look at is what happened over these past eight years to make it stop growing. It was cutting our education system, it was cutting our roads and transportation system, and it was not expanding Medicaid. Those are the kinds of things that we’ve got to do if we’re ever going to grow this economy. We took away the Bioscience Authority, which was probably the best economic tool Kansas ever had in place. We did that to pay for the tax plan.
No, I do not believe that we need a constitutional amendment. The people in the state of Kansas made it very clear when they included it in the Constitution that we needed to provide suitable education for our kids, and the court just upheld that ruling. They did not appropriate the funding. The legislature appropriated the funding. We appropriated enough funding this past year to nearly pass court muster. We do need to come back and deal with the rate of inflation, because we overturned the Brownback tax plan. We now have the funds in the kitty to be able to take care of that in January when we get back in the legislature.
Yeah, you know, I hear Chris (my opponent) say over and over all we need to do is cut, and things will be fine in the state of Kansas, and we cut taxes, we can cut programs. What I’ve never heard him tell us is exactly what he would cut. Are we going to cut schools? Are we going to cut foster care? Are we going to cut roads? What are you going to cut, Chris (my opponent), to pay for your tax cut?
Thank you. I think some of the things that we actually do well in the state of Kansas and we can do better is career and technical education. We really did some serious reforms in that over the past few years, and I think we’ve seen a great increase in the number of kids taking full advantage of that. We had at one time a very robust early childhood education program. We’ve cut that back somewhat. We need to expand that again because that’s the best investment that the state can make. You know, and I think about what we could actually cut. I don’t know. I might combine the barber and cosmetology programs and save a half a position on that. But the fact of the matter is, we have cut so much over the past eight years, there really is nowhere else to go. If anything, what we’re seeing even with the current administration is the need to put people back in place to provide the basic core services that government’s responsible for.
Oh yeah, state government has shrunk considerably over the past eight years. When Chris (my opponent) talks about local government being expanded, he’s really talking at the very local level, whether you’re talking school districts and cities and townships and those kinds. State government itself has shrunk considerably to a point where we’re not able to provide basic services for our citizens.
I have voted for that, and I’ll vote for it again if I need to. Those kids have been living in the state of Kansas. It’s the only home they know. They’ve been attending high schools for at least three years. They’ve graduated. They’re eligible for entrance into our Regents universities, and all we’re giving them is total rack rate. They’re not eligible for any grants, not eligible for any scholarships. They pay full tuition. And when Chris (my opponent) says that we could save three million dollars by charging them out-of-state tuition, that’s not true. Those kids would be dropping out of college because they couldn’t afford it. We would actually be losing $14 million in tuition revenue.
Yeah, I think we all understand that we need to have secure borders, but more importantly, we need to have comprehensive immigration reform, and that can only be done at the federal level. We need to be pressuring our congressional delegation to get their act together and get us the immigration reform that we need. Our agricultural industry depends upon it. Our manufacturing industry depends upon it. It’s something that must get done and must get done as soon as possible.
Yeah, I think there are a variety of things that we can do to look at that. You know, first would be to support our local law enforcement folks, give them the tools that they need to fight crime. I think we also have to recognize that we have a gun-sense policy lack in the state of Kansas, and we really need to address that as we go forward. I also think that we have decimated our mental health reform system, our mental health system, so greatly over the past years that people who are in need of help, who are stressed, who are endangering themselves, danger to others, are not getting the services they need, and I think we need to fix that.
Yeah, thanks. Two years ago, I voted to take guns off campus. Last year, I voted to take guns away from people who had domestic violence violations, and then I also voted to eliminate guns in our public hospitals like KU and mental health centers. You know, you can make a vote and then realize that it’s gone too far and make some changes, and I’m doing that, and Moms Demand Action have recognized me as a gun-sense—
Yeah, I think that there are a number of things that we need to do to lift up folks and get them the opportunity for good-paying jobs. I want to start, though, back — you know, so many times we address the issue of the moment rather than looking at how do we really solve the problem, and that’s why when I’m governor, I will focus very heavily on early childhood education and programs. You know, I’m going to work with our business community and form public-private partnerships all across the state so that we’re getting to our kids at a very early age and their families, so that by the time they get in our school system, they’re not needing our special education programs; by the time they get to their teenage years, they’re not going into our juvenile system; and by the time they’re in their late high school years and going into college, that they are work-ready and able to be productive citizens.
Yeah, you know, the reason our property taxes, our income taxes, are too high right now is a direct result of the Brownback tax experiment of 2012 and 2013. We have reversed that. We need to wait until probably the middle of next year to understand the full implications of what we did. We also need to wait to see what the implications of the federal tax cuts are. But when we figure that all out, those are the areas that we need to look at because, indeed, our property taxes are way too high and our sales tax is so high.
I would support legalization of medical marijuana. I think it’s past time for us to do that. I don’t think Kansas, particularly the legislature, is ready to go full bore on recreational marijuana, and I also think people need to recognize that is not going to be our budget panacea. You know, the more states legalize marijuana, we’ll see a significant decrease in revenues provided to the state, so I don’t want anybody to get the idea that that’s how we’re going to fund our schools. It won’t happen. Sports betting, I’m fine with. It’ll bring in some revenue, but again, it’s not the kind of thing that’s going to be able to substitute for a sound tax structure.
Uh, yeah, when we’re talking about legalizing medical marijuana, we’re not talking about the approach that was taken in Colorado, where it really was available on every corner. This would be a much more regulated approach, where doctors would be doing the prescribing. But I think we know from our hospice work and from opioid abuse that there’s a real use for medical marijuana, and one that will actually decrease costs and decrease addiction.
Thank you. I think the thing that I most abhor about the Trump administration is the divisiveness, the incivility, the xenophobia, the misogyny that comes out of that administration on a regular basis. I think it’s tearing our country apart, and I think we need a uniter, not a divider. So that’s what I like the least about the Trump administration. In terms of — I’ve been racking my brain trying to think of what do I like the best, and I suppose maybe putting golf back up at the high level, giving it a lot of attention that the sport desperately needed.
Thank you. You know, I railed against the Brownback tax experiment of 2012 and 13, so I was not going to do the same thing in 2017 and cut taxes when our state was in such a world of hurt.
Yeah, I think actually there’s been a national group that’s looked at Kansas and found us to be about 48th in election security, nowhere near the top, very close to the bottom in terms of our actual security. I think there are some measures that we can take that would make voting more accessible to folks and engage our citizens. And one thing I would propose is that we look at having same-day registration, that on voting day you can go in and you can register as a Republican, you can register as a Democrat, you can register as an independent, and you can vote that day. The restrictions that we have placed on it have made it very, very difficult and disenfranchised all the wrong people. You know, really, our senior citizens, many of them in nursing homes, our disabled folks, our veterans — these are people who have the right and should be encouraged to vote, and we need to make it possible for that to happen.
Yeah, I’d like to address Greg’s (my opponent) issue of my vote. You know, Greg,  (my opponent)  you weren’t there. If you had been, you would have understood that this was a compromise that was forged because what Secretary Kobach wanted at that point was to put this law in force with no restraints in 2012. We got it delayed to 2014 with the hope that the REAL ID program would be in place and it would not be a burden to our citizens.
Well, we know that there’s a direct correlation between the amount of state support given to our higher education system and the price of tuition, so we need, as a state, to fulfill our obligation to our higher education institutions and fund them in a way that doesn’t force them to rely so heavily on tuition. I think the other thing we need to look at is providing paths for students to get through school in three years. We’ve already started some of that with our career and tech ed by getting down into our high school, allowing kids to get college credits early. They can actually go into a Regents university now with a full year behind them at a much reduced rate. That will save them on tuition. And then we need to make sure that we’ve got enough programs in place for them that when they get there, they can get the courses they need to get in, get out, and get a job.
Yeah, I think that, you know, we’re all interested in making sure that higher education is affordable for our kids. I think we also need to emphasize, and maybe move this into our high schools, that not every kid needs to be going to a four-year school, that there are a lot of programs in our career and tech ed programs that will allow those kids to gain a skill and come out having a good-paying job and a fulfilling career. So I think that I want to put a lot more emphasis on that as we’re moving along and fixing our education system.
Yeah, I can’t say how much I support the freedom of speech. I think it’s very, very important that we allow that. I think it’s particularly important on our university campuses. We send our kids to college to grow and to learn and to express themselves and to hear the opinions of others, so I would not want to see us put any restrictions on that, particularly on our college campuses. I would say that I’d like to return some civility to speech. I think that would be very helpful so that we could actually hear one another rather than just shout and yell at one another.
Yeah, I think it’s time that we slam the door once and for all on the past eight years of misery in the state of Kansas, and I fully believe that what Kansas needs now is not a showboat. What Kansas needs now is a strong, steady, experienced leader who knows where the problems are and has the relationships already established within the legislature to bring people together and get things done and fix our state. We’re on the road to recovery. We don’t need to take a U-turn.

