There is no doubt that Sam Brownback ramrodded policies through the state legislature and inflicted them upon our state, decimating our schools, our roads, our health care, and our economy. We need to change that. We have started down the road to recovery, and we need to stay on that road. Kris Kobach (my opponent) has vowed to go back to the Sam Brownback experiment. We know what that did to us, and we don’t need to go back there. The other thing that Sam Brownback left us with was a reputational deficit. You know, it has been very difficult to attract businesses, professionals, millennials to come to this state, and it’s been very difficult to keep people here. We’ve had the greatest out-migration of any of our surrounding states during the Brownback administration.
Yeah, I think we all know that Kris (my opponent)  comparing me to Sam Brownback is absurd on the face of it. I actually voted against the sales tax increase that Brownback proposed because of what it would do to our citizens across the state, including making our sales tax on food the highest in the country.
Yeah, Kris (my opponent) loves to say that I voted for his voter ID bill. Actually, I did not. I voted for a compromise bill so that he would not get all the authority that he (my opponent) wanted to be able to suppress voters, and when it was clear that he was abusing his position, I co-sponsored a bill to repeal the voter ID provision. So with that, I think it’s very clear as we’ve gone on in this campaign that I will be able to bring people together. I have always done that in my Senate career. It’s clear from the support that I’ve gotten across the board with moderate Republicans as prominent as Governor Bill Graves, Governor Mike Hayden, U.S. Senator Nancy Kassebaum, U.S. Senator Sheila Frahm, that I am the one who can bring people together, work on behalf of the state of Kansas, and fix this mess.
Again, I’d say that’s nonsense. I actually changed my position on guns, though I am a strong supporter of the Second Amendment, but it was two years ago that I voted to ban guns on college campuses as a direct result of requests from my constituents, so it was long before I gave any consideration to running for this office. I changed because it was the right thing to do, and if Sam Brownback had changed when he realized he had made— the state of Kansas would be in much better shape today.
Okay. Well, I actually led the bipartisan effort last year to essentially repeal the Brownback tax experiment, and by doing that we’ve put ourselves back on the road to recovery. We’ve had 16 months now of revenues exceeding estimates, so we have a cushion in our bank account now. We can go back into the legislature next session and we can fund the essentials of government, particularly our schools, which we do need to add a little bit more money to — that money is in the bank, and we will do that — and then we will focus on the priorities of this state and bring back the things that made Kansas what it was and also allow for economic development. So we’ve been funding the schools. We’re going to look at a way for funding transportation and other infrastructure projects, and we will expand Medicaid.
I do. You know, I’m actually the only one standing on this stage tonight who understands the Kansas budget. I have been the ranking minority member on the Senate Ways and Means Committee for 14 years. I have an intimate knowledge of that budget, and I can tell you that the budget at this point is stable enough and moving towards even greater stability that we will be able to fund education and restore some of the funding to programs like foster care without raising taxes.
Yeah, I’m actually the one who blew the whistle on DCF and its losing children in the foster care system. I was sitting on a child welfare task force and uncovered that fact and let it be known publicly that that was there, and that’s the reason that we have a new secretary of DCF. That agency has been decimated by the Sam Brownback tax experiment. They don’t have social workers at the front end to do family preservation and keep kids out of the system. They don’t have social workers at the back end to do reintegration, either into the biological home or into an adoptive home. We have got to give them the resources that they need to take care of our kids. I will treat this issue as the emergency that it is. This is a life-and-death issue, as we’ve seen.
Yes, I do support the legalization of medical marijuana. You know, it has been clearly shown that it has many benefits for young children with severe seizure disorder, for folks in chronic pain, and for end-of-life use. It would also be incredibly helpful in helping to reduce the opioid crisis. The fewer opioids would be prescribed, medical marijuana to be used instead, we’d have fewer opioids on the market. So I think it’s imperative that we get this done. I believe the legislature is prepared to do that. I also think that we need to review our sentencing guidelines. We are incarcerating nonviolent first offenders for minor marijuana possession. You know, we’re destroying their families and we are costing the state a fortune. We need to design treatment programs, not incarceration, for those kinds of folks.
I do. And I can look no further than North Carolina. When the North Carolina legislature banned transgender bathrooms, what happened was businesses that were packed up ready to move to North Carolina said, never mind, we’re not coming. Conventions canceled right and left. It had a huge economic impact on the state of North Carolina. They rescinded that bill. I don’t think there’s any reason for us to go down a path that’s been proven to be a disaster economically for states, so we will not do that. I also think that it’s the kind of discrimination that makes it very difficult for us to attract young people to our state. You know, they’re not interested in discriminating against anybody — LGBT, for racial, for religious reasons. You know, they want a state that’s open and welcoming, and that’s what we need to make Kansas.
I’m not sure I would use the term corrupt. I do think that there are things that need to be altered in the way that we operate as a state government, and I would go also to the no-bid contracts. You know, there are over 4,000 of those that have occurred during the Brownback administration where deals are cut in the back room, whether they’re in the best interest of Kansans or not. As governor, I will review each and every one of those contracts to make sure that if we are going to outsource something, that we’re getting the best bang for the buck for Kansas taxpayers. I think the other way that we can improve things is by changing the complexion of government. You know, over the past eight years, so many people have been put into positions of authority for really ideological purposes rather than for any skill set that they brought to that. I will change that. My cabinet and my appointments will look like Kansas. They will be skilled, highly trained folks who know what they’re doing and understand the mission of their agency.
No. I dont agree because what Brownback brought was a bill that I voted for that told our utility companies that they needed to build their portfolio so that 20% of the electricity that they were offering was produced by renewable energy sources. Our utility companies have actually exceeded that mandate. Westar just announced that they were at 35%, so that’s what that is. You know, the fact of the matter is the legislature does not set electrical rates. That’s negotiated through the Kansas Corporation Commission, and I would agree that we need to take a really good look at the folks who are appointed to that commission and make sure that we have people there who have the consumer in mind as well as regulating the company.
Yeah, the fact of the matter is the utility companies do have to go before the Kansas Corporation Commission for any rate increase. That’s who makes those decisions.
Oh, absolutely. I mean, I think Kris (my opponent) has made it very clear from the beginning of this campaign that he wants us to take us back to the Brownback tax experiment. We know what that did. Sam Brownback made the largest cuts to schools in our state’s history. That would happen again if we were to revert back to that particular policy. So yes, I absolutely stand by it. There’s absolutely no way — he certainly hasn’t told us how he would fund our schools. He also was hypercritical of current Governor Jeff Colyer, who did sign a bill to increase funding for schools. He made it very clear that he thought that was a major mistake and that he would not have done that if he had been governor.
Yeah, I think that, you know, the Supreme Court ruling is actually evidence of the importance of keeping the three separate but equal branches of government. You know, to put in a constitutional amendment that would restrict the Supreme Court from overseeing what the legislature does and not being able to determine whether we’re doing what we are constitutionally mandated to do is absurd on the face of it. You know, they have been the check on a legislature that so many times has not done what they were supposed to do, which was to adequately fund our schools. Our schools are the largest economic driver in this entire state. It’s not only important to our kids in the schools that they get the education, but it’s important to our entire state. If we have a quality education program going on, if we want to be able to attract businesses and to keep businesses and to be able to provide for those businesses the workers that they need—
I would give Kansas gun laws a C at this particular point. You know, I’ve always been a strong supporter of the Second Amendment throughout my legislative career, but I also think that most Kansas gun owners in Kansas believe that we need to reinstate some common-sense gun policy to ensure the safety of our kids, safety in our schools, and the safety of our homes and the safety in our streets. So as governor, what I plan to do is to bring together stakeholders, bring together law enforcement, mental health professionals, public health professionals, educators, students, and parents, and bring them all together and work with them to form a comprehensive gun-sense policy that makes sense for Kansas, that continues to ensure law-abiding citizens’ access to guns, but also makes sure that our kids and our schools are safe.
Wow, thank you for that opportunity, Bob. I would say that Kris Kobach (my opponent) has one of the most adorable families I have ever seen, and I would say about Greg Orman (my opponent) that, you know, I actually worked on Greg’s campaign in 2014 when he was running for the Senate. I thought he was eminently qualified for that position, and I continue to think that.
Now, you know, this is a really pivotal election for Kansas. The stakes have never been so high, and the choice has never been so clear. We can either go back to the Sam Brownback devastating years, or we can elect a governor who will work like the devil to rebuild our state. Kansas needs a strong, steady, experienced leader who can work from day one to get our state back on track. As your governor, I will do that. I’m Laura Kelly. I’m the only thing standing between Kris Kobach (my opponent) and the governor’s office, and I ask for your vote on November 6th.

