You know, I think talk is cheap in politics. Politicians are always making promises and saying they’ll do this or that, but results are something different. And I’ve shown the people of Kansas that I deliver results. As Secretary of State, I promised we’d have photo ID, proof of citizenship, and I’d cut the size of my office, and I delivered on all three promises. Now, you may not personally agree with me on all three, but you can see by my actions that if I make a promise, I’ll put my head down and I’ll push as hard as I can to deliver on the promise. And so as governor, I’m going to be promising to cut taxes and spending, which was the missing ingredient of the Brownback tax cuts of 2012, and we will reduce our tax rate in Kansas, especially our property taxes, which will have, if I’m governor, a 2% cap on appraisals. We are overtaxed. We’re the high-tax state in the five-state area. I’ll deliver on that promise. And as far as cutting spending goes, I cut my budget from $7.0 million down to $4.6 million.
Without question, the number one thing I hear about is taxes. Like I said, we’re the high-tax state in the five-state area. We had a record-breaking sales tax hike in 2015, and I’m sure you all see that when you go to make purchases, and a record-breaking income tax hike in 2017. The combined impact of those two tax hikes on the average Johnson County household is $1,244 a year — $1,244 a year out of your wallet, in addition to the previous taxes you were paying. That’s a family vacation. That’s food on the table. That’s all kinds of things that could be used for your households. And Topeka is not managing the money like we would manage our money in a law firm or manage our money in a household. Instead, the spending just keeps going and going and going. And I’ll agree, under Republican and Democrat administrations, the spending has just been going like this. I will rein in spending. Topeka doesn’t have a revenue problem — it has a spending problem — and I will solve that problem.
If you like the Keynesian idea of just have the government spend, spend, spend, and hope that that creates a secondary effect in the private sector, then I’m not your man. You would want a big-spending candidate, and one of the others would be a perfect choice for you. But if you think businesses are driven by the bottom line, and that is the amount of taxes they pay and the utility rates they pay, I will try to get both below. We are also the high utility-rate state in the five-state area: 13.4 cents per kilowatt-hour here, 10.9 average around us. How are you going to get a business to come here when our taxes are the highest and our utility—
Yes, I support such a constitutional amendment. We have a constitutional crisis right now in Kansas. The judiciary has assumed the appropriations power, which the Kansas Constitution, in Article 2, Section 24, very clearly gives only to the legislature. The judiciary is now, in decision after decision, saying, “No, this amount of money is not enough. Spend this amount of money.” Alexander Hamilton wrote in Federalist 78 — I’m sure many of you remember this from constitutional law — he said that we need not fear the judiciary because it has neither the power of the sword nor the power of the purse. The Kansas Supreme Court has seized the power of the purse. It is outside of its constitutional role, so that is one constitutional problem we have, and it needs to be corrected. The second is it’s absolutely butchering Article 6, Section 6 of the Kansas Constitution, which says the legislature shall make suitable provision for the funding of schools so that no child needs to pay tuition to attend a public school. That is almost an exact paraphrase. It doesn’t say each child gets an adequate or super-adequate amount of money. The Kansas Supreme Court is out of its lane and has misinterpreted the Constitution. That must end.
Yeah, I’d like to rebut what Greg (my opponent) said previously about my budget. We did reduce it, 7.0 million to 4.6 million. He repeated a talking point of one of my former Republican opponents, so he can be forgiven for his source. But the HAVA funds that he’s talking about, they’re not empty. We still had about two and a half million dollars in that fund, and that wasn’t forcing us to cut our budget. And we just got another 3 million, almost 4 million, from the federal government. So the federal fund is still there. We cut the budget by me cutting staff through gradual attrition. When baby boomers retire, we didn’t replace them.
The program that I would — that is the best — is our highways. We’re actually number two in the nation in the quality of our highways right now. We have been robbing from the highway fund year after year after year to balance the budget and finance the legislature’s big-spending habits, but we absolutely need to finish the T-WORKS program and finish building out the roads. That is a program that’s doing very well, and you see it when you cross the line into Missouri or Nebraska. You see the roads get worse when you cross the state line. The program, the spending, that I would eliminate is giving in-state tuition subsidies to illegal aliens, which we’ve been doing since 2004 and which Ms. Kelly voted for in the legislature — or voted against repealing, in the legislature. That’s, depending on the year, between three and four million dollars we’re spending to subsidize the post-graduate education in college of people who cannot legally work in the state of Kansas. If we have so much money to be subsidizing education, let’s not hike tuition at KU or K-State this year.
Every in-state tuition payer has two-thirds of the freight paid by you. The taxpayer pays one-third of it himself. The idea that there’s nothing left to cut is ridiculous. Kansas is number three in America — number three — in the number of state and local government employees per capita. There is a lot of fat to cut on government in Kansas, and I did that in my agency simply by gradual attrition. As the baby boomers retire — and they’re retiring 11,000 a day nationally — if they’re in government, see if we can get by without filling the position.
Twenty minutes for this question right now — it’s 57 seconds. Thank you. Look, obviously there’s so much that a state can do. Sure, the federal government does have the principal role, but as I’ve argued in cases that have gone to the Supreme Court, and the Supreme Court has acknowledged, states can do lots of things to discourage illegal immigration. Giving them in-state tuition is not one thing that we should be doing. We need to stop doing that. We’re also spending $377 million a year of taxpayer money in giving welfare and other public benefits to illegal aliens. We also have three sanctuary counties. Johnson County used to be one, but thankfully the new sheriff got rid of that. I proposed a bill, or drafted a bill, that made it through committee but never got to a final vote, to end sanctuary counties in Kansas. And you can do it really easily — you just take away all state funds. When the county can’t feed at the trough, the county changes its policy. We also need to have E-Verify for all state contract recipients. You want to work and use Kansas taxpayer money to have that job, then you better use E-Verify so that all of your workers are U.S. citizens or are here legally.
Greg (my opponent ) criticizes both parties, but he adopts the policy position of the Democrat Party, and that’s typical. I understand that’s where he’s positioning himself. But look, he’s offering the same pro-amnesty position that Ms. Kelly (my opponent ) is offering as well. Amnesty is not something the state can grant anyway, but that approach where you just say we’ve got illegal aliens, we’re not — we’re just — we’ve given up, and we’re going to accept that, we don’t have to accept that. I’ve advised the president many times on this issue. States can discourage illegal immigration. Missouri is doing it successfully. Their laws are much better structured. Kansas needs to change.
Well, I’m sure there’s some criminal attorneys out here who might have a thought or two on that. Look, I mean, there’s no silver bullet. There’s no magical statute that the state can pass to reduce homicides. We do have to support law enforcement, and that is, by the way, one area where I think the attrition of numbers in employees should not occur, because you have certain ratios that a police department and Highway Patrol has to have per population. The number of officers. I don’t favor a policy of ratcheting down all of our sentences so that we can simply open up beds in our prisons. We have to be a law-and-order state, a state where if you commit the crime, you will do the time, and it has a deterrent effect. And just to switch to an analogous issue where I’ve been personally involved, we’ve been prosecuting voter fraud in Kansas, and it has had a deterrent effect. The word got out that if you commit the crime of double-voting, we will catch you and you’ll probably face a $3,000 to $5,000 fine, and the amount of cases of double-voting has decreased. So you have to punish crimes like this. Homicide, of course, is at the top of the list, and through punishment you have deterrence.
I think Greg’s (my opponent ) statement that you are disqualified for governor if you want to have the illegal population leave the state and open up jobs for Kansans — if that disqualifies me, I think he’s 180 degrees wrong. I’d be the first governor who’s actually tried to do something about the problem, because there are many, many jobs — many jobs, whether you’re talking bricklaying, whether you’re talking all kinds of sectors — where Americans are making less money, and that’s one of the reasons why the firefighters’ union endorsed me. We have to look out for the American worker.
I want to focus on one specific group: the elderly. There are many Kansans, tens of thousands, maybe hundreds of thousands of Kansans, who have retired and have said, okay, I can afford to live in my home for the rest of my life. This is the budget I have. This is my Social Security. This is whatever other savings I had. But they are finding that they are now being taxed out of their own homes, and many of them are in northern Johnson County, because appraisals have been killing people — figuratively killing people — who are in a position where they don’t have another source of income. They can’t somehow increase their income by X percent to account for the 50% appraisal increase that happened in a two-year period. If you live in this county, you know what I’m talking about. Big-box retail between 2016 and 2017 increased an average of 80 — not 18 — 80 percent appraised value in one year. I defy anyone to give me an explanation economically that can justify that increase. These appraisals are stealth tax hikes. They are certain, and no one has to take responsibility on the county commission. We have to have a 2% cap, which I have proposed, so that no one’s appraisals go up more than 2% in a year.
No, the reason that our taxes are too high is because the legislature voted to raise the taxes. Ms. Kelly (my opponent) did so in 2009 and 2017 on income taxes and 2010 and 2015 on sales taxes. The legislature bears responsibility for this. You can’t just say, “Oh, they made me do it.” No. The legislature and the governor have to step up and stop spending so much. The thing that government can do — on the left, people talk, “Oh, the government will have a program to just create jobs magically.” What the government can actually do is stop taking money out of your pocket. That’s something we can do tomorrow.
No on medical marijuana. Yes on sports betting. Let’s look at medical marijuana first. Look, every state that’s tried medical marijuana legalization has found that it becomes a ridiculously open gateway for people to just use it for recreational purposes. Sure, people who need it for medical purposes also get it, but the processes for the doctor’s note are laughable, and people use it recreationally as well in those states. So no, I don’t favor medical marijuana legalization. I do favor doing things to fast-track access to the CBD, the beneficial component of marijuana that actually does provide pain relief, and the FDA is on the verge of approving that in pill form. There are already oil versions of it, so we as a state and as government can certainly try to facilitate access to the medically beneficial component of marijuana. But the notion that, hey, we’ll just say it’s okay for medical purposes and everything will be solved — simply not realistic. Sports betting, we’ll see how much revenue it generates. I agree with Senator Kelly it may not generate that much, but certainly it’s not something that I think the legislature should prohibit.
But of course the beneficial component of medical marijuana, it will soon be available in pill form and is already available in oil form, so there’s no good reason why we send a message — and as the father of five young daughters, and I’m sure many of you are parents or grandparents, you are sending a message when suddenly the thing that was illegal now becomes legal, even if for specified purposes, and that, oh, it’s really not that bad, it’s okay, go ahead — and I don’t want to send that message. I think there’s no reason, there’s no good excuse, to legalize marijuana.
Support the most would be the Trump tax cuts. It’s a tough one. I suppose I’d say I oppose the delay in reversing the DACA amnesty that the Obama administration did unconstitutionally through an executive order. President Trump eventually got there. I just would have gotten there faster. Sorry I couldn’t give you more of this vigorous opposition, but look, the Trump tax cut — let’s talk about that. That is something that has got the national economy moving. Kansas, however, in 2017, was one of three states that had negative economic growth. The other two were Louisiana and Connecticut. So we have negative growth because of our high taxes. Meanwhile, the rest of the nation is booming. Cutting taxes does have a stimulative effect on the economy. And then the legislature failed by about five votes to pass on the Trump tax windfall that was created at the state level. If we had mirrored the federal changes, we could have given $137 million total to taxpayers in Kansas. That’s going to be one of the first things I ask for as governor, is to pass that windfall onto the people of Kansas.
Yeah, I want to continue along the line of the passing along the windfall of the Trump tax cut. It would be $137 million, and Senator Kelly (my opponent) can perhaps correct me if I’m wrong, but I think she voted against returning that windfall to the people of Kansas. So that was essentially a windfall for the state. The state budget suddenly got this $137 million that it should have passed along to the people of Kansas if our code mirrored the change in the federal code. But instead, she and other legislators — and please correct me if I’m wrong — kept the windfall instead of returning it to you. That’s what’s wrong with Topeka.
No. I’ve worked for the past eight years to bring us the strongest election security measures in the country, and if you ask any secretary of state, they would say, yeah, Kansas has the strongest election security measures. It’s good to be number one, and I think we are now — I know we are now — a model for other states. Alabama has adopted our proof-of-citizenship law word for word. Pennsylvania has adopted portions of our protection for absentee ballots. Other states are looking at prosecutorial authority for the attorney general and secretary of state like we have here in Kansas. We have achieved something great in Kansas. So I imagine that my colleague on the stage here from the Democrat Party would disagree here, but look, there was a real problem with non-citizens getting on the ballot, getting on the registration rolls in Kansas. We had 127 that we found, and you can’t just look at the rolls and say, oh, that’s a non-citizen. They were found because they did something else, like declining jury duty and saying, I’m not a U.S. citizen. The actual number is in the thousands. One expert in the case we had estimated it could be over 30,000. So we have solved these problems. Kansas should be proud of what it has accomplished.
I’d like to correct one error and rebut one point from Ms. Kelly (my opponent). She  (my opponent) said the southside group found us 48th in security. No, they found us 48th in administration, and if you look at why they found that, they said because Kansas has so many provisional ballots. Why do we have so many provisional ballots? Because our statutes say that if you roll up to the election polling place, no matter what your situation is — you’ve never lived in Kansas, you’ve never registered — we hand you a provisional ballot. That’s our fail-safe in our law. It’s not — it’s something that the legislature rightly chose. As far as same-day registration, it’s been a disaster in states like New Hampshire, where people come in—
Largely a federal issue? State land-grant institutions are largely a federal issue? Look, we have a real problem in Kansas. $28,000 is the average debt that a Kansas student has upon graduation. That’s just the average. Lots of people are $50,000, $60,000 in debt. And I do agree with Greg, though, on the point that we absolutely have to keep college tuition from increasing. Now, we might take a different approach in doing it. It has been going way faster than inflation. It’s outrageous how people are being encouraged to get into college as quickly as possible right away and not looking at other alternatives, and usually to go straight to the four-year university, and then they are saddled with this debt for the rest of their lives. One of the solutions — well, first of all, the governor does control, of course, membership on the Board of Regents, and absolutely I’ll be putting people on the Board of Regents whose number one priority is keeping tuition down, number one. Second thing is, there are innovative approaches that are out there now that I think we should be pushing for. One is allowing people to get college credit in their senior year in high school, then go to a community college at a very reasonable cost for one or two years, and then spending one or two years at the university—
And the Board of Regents—
It absolutely is an issue in Kansas. This is an issue everywhere in higher education, and I’m speaking, of course, as I think the only person on stage who’s been actually employed in higher education. I was a law professor for 15 years, and have a few students in the audience, I believe, as well. Look, there is definitely a culture of very heavy political correctness, both in the undergraduate communities and in the law schools and others, and it is oppressive at times when people who have a conservative point of view are shouted down, are pushed off — you know, booed off campus, in some cases in California violently — forced not to have conservative speakers. I don’t think anyone can reasonably doubt that proposition, either by me or by Jeff Sessions, or dispute that proposition. Let me get my train of thought back on the track here. So absolutely the governor can do things, and I think an example was, of course, when KU was flying the desecrated flag. I realize they were calling it art, but, you know, come on. It was a perfect example where students initially led the protest and said, hey, something is wrong here, and then the admin officials, like myself, said, hey, this should not be there. So we can weigh in.
Look, you judge a politician not by his or her words, but by his or her actions, and I have delivered big changes as secretary of state, and I will deliver big changes as governor. Mr. Orman (my opponent) says that if you want the status quo, look at us. On the contrary, I’d say if you want the status quo, you’ve got two tax-and-spend liberals here to choose from. If you want someone who’s going to move us in a radically different direction and actually take Kansas so that our taxes are fair again and so we’re no longer the sanctuary state of the Midwest, then you should vote for the candidate of change, and I humbly ask for your vote.

