
that plan well I think the big issue we do face is jobs I mean it's the number one issue for people everywhere we go and as I've traveled around the Commonwealth um it's very clear to me that some parts of Massachusetts are doing really well and other parts aren't and a big part of our economic development plan is focused on those regions and those communities that have not done as well as others and that's why we've been talking about building economies based on the jobs that are already in certain parts of Massachusetts and it's why for example my first campaign event was at UMass L at the emerging Technology Center because that is a great public private partnership between the Plastics and polymer manufacturing industry up in the marac valley and UMass L and it's created this really terrific virtuous circle between a higher ed institution that provides research and product development expertise to a bunch of firms that want to be here and want to grow here and it's a great pathway for kids who go through that school into those companies when they graduate and we should do more of those.  build on what we have region by region well and sure and that's why I have a regional economic development plan that does precisely that in 13 regions aligning

Well, Harvard Pilgrim, as most people know, was in terrible shape when I got there, and I’m proud of the fact that we managed to rescue not only the jobs associated with Harvard Pilgrim but the jobs associated with many other health care organizations that would have failed if Harvard Pilgrim had gone down as well. And by the way, when we signed that contract with Perot we outsourced those jobs to Wellesley and to Quincy, and that’s where the vast majority of the people who’d been working continued to be employed, and I’m proud of the fact that we saved their jobs along with the thousands of jobs at Harvard Vanguard, which is one of the premier health care provider institutions in Eastern Massachusetts (the state I am running in), and saved the jobs of thousands of hospitals that may have failed if Harvard Pilgrim had gone down as well. I mean, in some respects, yeah, we had to make some tough decisions, but leadership requires you to make tough decisions, and I said many times that the hardest decision I had to make was to exit the Rhode Island marketplace. But even there, I’m proud of the fact that everybody we owed money to got paid, everybody who was in active treatment we continued to serve and make sure they got transitioned properly, and that everybody who was employed by us who lost their job—we provided job training and technical assistance and job placement too, and the vast majority of those people ended up getting hired by somebody else.

Well first of all, the outsourcing award was for the partnership we had with Perot, and remember those jobs stayed here in Massachusetts, and it was a big part of the success we had in taking an organization that was fundamentally broken in many ways—a lot like many parts of state government are today—and turning it around and making it work for everyone: making it work for the members of Harvard Pilgrim, making it work for the providers that did business with Harvard Pilgrim, making it work for the employees of both Harvard Pilgrim and Perot. Look, we saved thousands of jobs and kept them right here in Massachusetts as a result of saving that company, and we also saved the jobs of many other organizations that would have failed if we’d gone under.
That’s not the only thing I’ve done for work. I also spent eight years working in the Weld and Cellucci administration, during which time, between tax cuts, workers’ comp reform, and a host of other reforms, we took a state that had the highest unemployment rate when we took office in 1991 to the lowest unemployment rate in the country by the time Paul Cellucci left 10 years later, and we created 500,000 net new jobs in Massachusetts over that period—something I’m very proud of.

 Yeah. Five hundred people out of a management workforce—it’s roughly 3,000 people—you’re talking about almost one-sixth of the managers in state government. The fact that it happened two weeks before an election and two months before the end of an administration, and so far there’s no publicly available explanation about what agencies are affected or how they’re affected—I worry a lot about, we need to know those facts. But I also worry a lot about the message this sends. One of the things that makes people crazy about government, especially state government, is that there’s two sets of rules: one for the people who are on the inside and one for all the people who pay the bills. Look at something like the probation scandal, where day after day we had to listen to testimony that indicated that a whole bunch of people got jobs not because of what they knew but because of who they knew. And to this day, I’m still the only candidate for governor who actually put out a proposal to make transparent the process through which Massachusetts state government hires people, and creating a process to make sure that the public understands who gets the jobs and why. And I think that’s a big difference, frankly, between me and the attorney general (my opponent).
To simplify the code, I’m all for it.
We raised, we also grew our membership by 40% while I was there and took a company that was bankrupt and made it the number one carrier in the country for member satisfaction and customer service for seven years in a row. I mean, we made a ton of operating improvements as well—the kinds of things that I think state government could use a good solid dose of right now. But I think it’s important to send a message to employers, small businesses, everybody in Massachusetts, many of whom feel they’ve been nickel-and-dimed to death over the course of the past few years, that we’re not going to just raise taxes to figure out how to pay the bills. Somewhere we have to draw the line. Think about energy costs: next month, families and businesses in Massachusetts are going to be dealing with a 40% increase in their energy costs because the Commonwealth of Mass, the governor, the DPU, and frankly the attorney general, who’s supposed to be the ratepayer advocate, didn’t do the work that they should have done to deal with the fact that we knew we were taking three coal-fired plants out of production, which is fine, but therefore we needed to build additional capacity to deal with that. And what we should have been doing as a commonwealth is moving forward to simply expand existing natural gas pipelines from 3 feet to 4 feet, which is a pretty simple process, so that people wouldn’t get hit with those increases—that’s the kind of thing that—

 I guess it depends upon which fee you're talking about and what it's associated with okay but I got to say the governor excuse me the attorney general (my opponent)  has over a billion dollars of new spending of one type or another that she's already proposed she's going to have to figure out how to pay for it. 

 I’ll comment on this this. Every four years someone says they’re not going to raise taxes on the middle class, all right, and we’ve been hearing that for seven years with one-party rule on Beacon Hill: gas tax—middle class; sales tax—middle class; satellite TV—middle class; registry fees—middle class. Most of these tax increases, property taxes, fees for after-school sports—all this stuff lands on the middle class. And that’s one of the reasons why I’ve said I’m not going to raise taxes, because I think the middle class feels strapped already, and the last thing they need is another four years of getting nickel-and-dimed again.
I think what we ought to do is an annual review of whether or not we’re getting what we think we’re supposed to get out of them. I think that’s absolutely worth doing and I would do that as governor.

I don’t support driver’s licenses for people who are undocumented, and the main reason for that is no one’s ever been able to explain to me how you can actually document and verify someone who is undocumented. I get the fact that for many people this is a burden and an inconvenience and I understand that and I’ve talked to a lot of them about it, but fundamentally we need Washington to deal with this question and to solve this immigration problem so that we at the state and local level can figure out how to deal with it. One of the things I’ve said I would do as governor is try to create a coalition of governors to make the case, probably in conjunction with mayors and other local officials, to Washington that we at the local level and the people who live at the local level deal with the hard reality of our broken immigration system. The folks in Washington, for the most part, treat immigration like a football and I think for both sides in many cases it works not to fix it. And thats a problem we need to create a coalition bipartisan and get after him on this one. 
I support the governor’s executive order. I don’t support going beyond that because, in my opinion, if you’re going to get an in-state tuition subsidized by the taxpayer, you need to be able to work here in Massachusetts when you graduate. It’s a yes for the governor’s executive order. It’s a no for going beyond that. The governor’s executive order basically says that if you fall into certain categories where you can in fact work here after you graduate, then you are eligible for in-state tuition. I’m okay with that. I support that. But I’m not in favor of going beyond that and basically saying people who can’t work here in Massachusetts upon graduation should be able to access a taxpayer-funded education. 

I think you need to be a citizen to vote, and it’s always been that way, and that’s the way I support it. And I come back to what I said at the beginning of this conversation: we need governors and local officials, for whom the issues associated with the federal government’s inability—unwillingness, whatever it is—to deal with the immigration issue, to form a coalition and make the case and make these guys and gals uncomfortable. I mean, it makes me nuts that every day I run into people in circumstances and situations that are compounded by the fact that the federal government has not been willing to address this question.
No, I would not support that.
Well, on the Hobby Lobby issue, I basically am guilty of wildly overthinking it, but I am pleased to say that I’m still the only candidate in the race who proposed a solution to that problem for women in Massachusetts by proposing to increase funding—which I would do as governor—in the family health line item at the Department of Public Health, to make it possible for women here in Massachusetts, if they work for a company that falls between the cracks associated with the state law and the federal law, to be able to access the contraceptives that aren’t covered under that decision. And I’m proud of that recommendation, and I will always support women’s access to full benefits and comprehensive contraceptive services. I said when I got into this race I was going to chase 100% of the vote, and I’m pretty pleased with the response we’ve gotten from people across the Commonwealth, from every neighborhood, men and women, to our agenda about how we create more jobs and improve our schools and build great communities and bring balance and bipartisanship to Beacon Hill. I’ve been really pleased by the response we’ve gotten from everybody.
It’s a campaign. I mean, I fully expect that if I say something dumb, Martha’s people are going to let me have it. That’s the way it works, and I would expect and anticipate that it kind of works the other way.
That I care about numbers and I don’t care about people. That’s the single biggest thing that drives me up the wall. My entire professional career has been about people. I didn’t run for the board of selectmen in Swampscott and stand out in the rain because I cared about the numbers. I did it because I wanted to help the people in my town. I didn’t spend eight years working in the Weld-Cellucci administration because it was about the numbers. I did it because I wanted to help people. And I took the job at Harvard Pilgrim because thousands of people were going to lose their jobs and millions of people were going to lose their health care coverage if we didn’t figure out how to fix it. For me, it’s always been about people. And it bothers me that a guy who is pretty facile with math—which does matter when you’re talking about a $38 billion budget—is somehow considered to be somebody who doesn’t care about people.
Let’s talk about the mental health issue for a minute. I’m proud of the work that we did in the 1990s creating and building a community-based health care delivery system for people who no longer belonged in institutions. Those places were not great places to take care of anyone, and many folks in the advocacy community supported much of what we chose to do during that period of time. And by the way, as we sit here 20 years later, have we solved all the problems in mental health? Absolutely not. But a good piece of the work that we did and the structure we put in place and the solutions that we found for people are exactly the way the system works today.
I’ve played a little blackjack and never done well. The one time I actually made money, I sent texts to a whole bunch of my friends and said I was going to quit my day job and become a full-time professional gambler, and then I gave it all back the next day. And I have absolutely no idea how craps works, although I have watched it a lot.
I said all along that I’m a big fan of one casino. Actually, my preferred option would have been for Massachusetts just to have the state of Connecticut send us $400 million every year not to build a casino, which I think would have been the best outcome of all. But there are a lot of people from Massachusetts who enjoy the atmosphere, the hospitality, the restaurants, and all the rest, and so I’ve said for a long time that I always thought one casino in Massachusetts made sense.
if the voters turn down the three casinos and the slot parlor, you know, good for the voters, that’s the way it’s supposed to work. And I’m glad that this question is on the ballot, unlike the attorney general (my opponent), I thought it should have been on the ballot from the beginning. And when you collect 125,000 signatures you belong on the ballot. But I’ve walked the site in Springfield. I’m pretty sure I’m the only candidate who has, and that’s a really interesting proposal in a part of Springfield that was hit by the tornado that is basically dying right before our eyes. It’s a $600 million investment and it’s a very innovative model in the sense that the casino, they don’t wrap the whole thing up into the project. It’s a casino and then they basically build a streetscape, they basically rebuild a part of downtown Springfield with the hospitality, restaurant and retail piece, and they connect it to the Civic Center so that the MGM becomes the global player that can actually bring entertainment venues and entertainment acts to the Well no, I mean, I think bringing it up and having a conversation about it is worthwhile, but the vote—you know, at that point the legislature and others may choose to say no.

Yeah, a lot. In fact, one of the reasons I supported one casino is I can’t imagine that three casinos and a slot parlor aren’t going to have a huge impact on the lottery, which as we all know is a big supporter for Commonwealth cities and towns. And by the way, three casinos and a slot parlor will absolutely have an impact on the other industries—hospitality, restaurants, retail—that compete for that entertainment and discretionary dollar that people spend. Part of what made the Springfield project interesting to me was you’re talking about making a big investment in a place where currently there’s not a lot going on, and that’s what makes it attractive.


First of all, we made a whole series of recommendations associated with domestic violence reform in the wake of the Jared Remy case. And one of the things that I learned was that he had been in a bunch of different courtrooms, and the court system as a whole didn’t talk to itself about this. Judges—this has got to be part of the game plan going forward. You can’t have people in front of four or five different judges each time, people behaving like it’s their first trip into court. We’ve got to be able to consolidate and aggregate that information so that judges can make informed decisions about not just bail, but about everything associated with those kinds of cases. I have no problem at all—and I think it would be a good idea—to have some sort of judicial review that takes place every ten years or so. These are lifetime appointments. 
I guess what I would say is you can either have a process where they have to be re-up, or the review would determine whether or not they would go before the governor’s council. I like the latter better than the former, but I have no problem with doing that. I mean, these are lifetime appointments. We want them to make good decisions—that’s why we set it up as an appointment—but they ought to be held accountable for that decision. Everybody ought to know that at some point they’re working for the public and the taxpayers are paying for it and they should be held accountable for the decisions they make.
I actually supported the governor’s proposal, which was a $30 million increase in the budget for DCF in this past legislative session, both for social workers, for technology, and for a variety of other pieces, but I also think there are management reforms that ought to be part of what happens there, and I made a bunch of reform proposals when the Jeremiah Oliver case—that tragedy—broke earlier this year. I think in many respects DCF has a very difficult and complicated job. In some ways they’re dealing with some of the most troubled families in the Commonwealth of Mass. And the fact that the Commonwealth had an opportunity to move toward fixing this four years ago when Children’s Rights filed that case, which was a very compelling case against the department, and the attorney general (my opponent) and the governor chose not to move to fix that but instead to fight it, was a problem, and clearly borne out by what happened after that. And in addition to that—and I’ve said this before—you (my opponent) have a terrific record with respect to advocating for children, but to have that case in front of you (my opponent) and to stand silently by while the state of Massachusetts cut the department by over $40 million is a problem and showed a lack of judgment on an issue that was right in front of you (my opponent) for several years.
this is all stuff we could have been doing from 2010 forward, and instead we fought that case, and the lawyer who represented that case on the other side worked in the Clinton administration—she was hardly what I would call a partisan—and finally, you know, the way you (my opponent) described that was you (my opponent) said you (my opponent) did what was best for Massachusetts. We you (my opponent) should have done what was best for the children that were being served by the department.
I said at the time I didn’t like the tone of the ad. I still don’t like the tone of the ad, and we are still having a discussion about whether they made the right decision or not, and I think the proof with regard to that is the tragedies and the problems and the broken agency the DCF became in many respects at the time and through those $40 and $50 million cuts in their— 

The first negative ad of this race, okay, was run by a super PAC, but the same week they started running that negative ad against me, they gave thousands of dollars to the attorney general (my opponent) through a campaign finance loophole. I mean, to some extent she (my opponent) doesn’t have any credibility on this issue, in my opinion.

I’m very proud of the fact that I was endorsed by the Minority Massachusetts Law Enforcement Officers Association because of the time and the effort I’ve made getting to know the folks in those communities of color, and a huge part of my economic development plan is about creating economic opportunity and improving the quality of education and public safety in those communities. And I was proud to stand with 40 or 50 leaders from those communities a week ago today in Roxbury to talk about that plan, to gain their support. The one other thing I would say quickly on this: I just happened to do a ride along the Friday night when Ferguson was breaking, and it was with Sergeant Johnson, and I wanted him to just take me around the city for five or six hours and show me what goes on in Boston, urban Boston. And the first thing he did was he took me to Dorchester High School and to Hunt Field where they were holding Pop Warner practice and cooking hamburgers and hot dogs and cheerleading practice, and he said this is what goes on in this community, these communities on Friday night, which no one ever talks about. And he knew every single coach and he knew half the parents who were there. And I think one of the things we have to do if we want to avoid situations like that is we’ve got to embed ourselves as human beings in these communities so that people understand that not only do we care about them but we get where they’re coming from, and they can see us, and they know we’re going to—if we make a commitment to them—we’re going to follow through on it.
first of all, the attorney general’s (my opponent’s) position on early childhood and mine are basically the same, and I’m glad to see that now that she’s (my opponent’s) in a general election she agrees with me that we should continue to make targeted investments in expanding our participation in pre-K. On the charter school question, I’ve spent a lot of time in a lot of city schools over the course of this race—parochial, traditional, charter. What I’m looking for is excellence. There are many charter schools out there that do a great job, and there are 45,000 parents on a waiting list. Those parents deserve choices. When I knock doors in Dorchester, when I knock doors in Mattapan, when I knock doors in Springfield, the first question that comes up when I’m talking to somebody who has school-age kids is, “I don’t have enough choices for my kids.” It is the number one issue. These people are desperate when they talk about this. For anybody who has kids, it just kills you to hear the concern in their voice. And there are a lot of great traditional schools out there too, filled with great teachers. One of the things I’ve talked a lot about during this campaign is wanting to create relationships between folks who are actually doing a terrific job of educating kids in traditional public schools with other folks in public schools. We don’t do the in-service type learning and teaching and best-practice sharing that we should be doing. And as governor, I’m going to make that happen two, three, four times a year. We’ve got to start doing that, because there are stars performing in urban education and we are not leveraging them.
Well, I think we should go ahead and pursue what’s happened, which I supported on the minimum wage legislatively, but I also believe we should—and I would file a bill as governor and advocate for—small business tax credits for small businesses so that they have the ability to absorb the increase in the minimum wage without taking hours away from people or jobs. 
I prefer to just go with what we’ve got.
Well, that would also be the same as the Connecticut law, by the way, which, as you point out, there are only two states in the country that have this law, and both of them, by the way, have a lot more flexibility than the Massachusetts law as written would propose. I support doing this. I will work with the legislature aggressively to get it done. But I worry a lot, if we’re all concerned about jobs and about small businesses and their ability to grow and thrive and create opportunity here, that this puts us at a significant disadvantage. Small business
there are a lot of people, by the way, who are going to lose some of their existing flex benefits when that thing passes because they won’t be able to access the flex benefits that their companies have currently put in place. There will be unintended consequences.
I think the opportunity to, as the chief law enforcement officer of the commonwealth and as the overseer of the Office of Campaign and Political Finance, I think it would have been appropriate for the attorney general (my opponent) to disclose that relationship, especially since she  (my opponent)   had financial opportunities—this woman raised money for her  (my opponent) as well—and was the sole beneficiary of the proposal.
Well, I certainly can’t control whatever they’re doing. They’re doing an investigation. I stayed as far away from it as I possibly can get, which I think is appropriate, and they’ll issue their report whenever they issue it. But I will say this: Martha (my opponent)  mentioned the fact that 33 times I pointed out the fact that I was working with General Catalyst. I’ve been completely transparent about this from the beginning. I’ve never tried to hide anything on this, and when issues were raised about it I hired the former general counsel of the Federal Election Commission and I gave him all the documentation and said if there’s something I need to do here tell me. He wrote a brief on it - let me finish -, and I made that brief publicly available to anybody who wanted to see it.
The New Jersey pension board is going to make their decision and issue their ruling whenever they finish their study. And as far as I can tell, based on the work that was done by the former lawyer for the FEC, I’ve done nothing wrong.
Can I just point out that there’s only one person at this table who is actually paid a campaign violation fine, and that would be the attorney general (my opponent) . 
Clint eastwood and my opponent would be meryl streep 
We desperately need to create more things at night for kids to do in urban communities, and I would like to put together a big coalition of folks who are involved in all kinds of recreational and community-based and athletic activities across the commonwealth, involving urban communities, and come up with things kids can do at night. 
Thank you. 
