Yeah, I raised my hand. Governor Brownback had a mixed record. He did well in protecting the lives of the unborn, and I think he deserves credit for that. He also tried to address our water problem that is affecting agriculture, and he also tried to stand for the rights of all Kansans in keeping and bearing arms. Where he failed, however, was when taxes were cut — and they needed to be cut — he didn’t cut spending. Instead, spending skyrocketed right after the taxes were cut in 2012, and that caused the deficits. I understand that you don’t put the cart before the horse. I am the only candidate on this stage who believes Kansans are overtaxed and we need tax cuts, but I will cut government spending at the same time or before we cut those taxes. I’ve shown it can be done in my own agency. I cut spending from $7.0 million a year down to $4.6 million a year, saving Kansas taxpayers over $10 million. It can be done. I have the experience to do it, and when we cut government spending, then we can return that money to the taxpayer. That was the mistake of the Brownback administration — they didn’t cut spending, and then when the time finally came for a tax hike to be proposed, he actually accepted a sales tax hike.
Yes, I’d like to rebut that. Senator Kelly (my opponent) has been running against Sam Brownback this whole race. Indeed, her ads constantly try to tie me to Brownback, but look at three critical issues: sales taxes — Brownback hiked the sales tax in 2015; she wanted an even bigger sales tax hike. Government spending — as I said, he made the mistake of increasing government spending; she wants even more of it. And on illegal immigration — Sam Brownback had no appetite for addressing our illegal immigration problem; neither does Laura Kelly (my opponent) . So my question is, will the real Sam Brownback please stand up?
Well, I’ve shown that I can reach across the aisle and gain broad bipartisan consensus. When I proposed and promised that Kansas become the number one state in America in stopping voter fraud, I delivered on my promise, and that included photo ID, proof of citizenship, and eventually prosecuting election fraud. On the photo ID and proof of citizenship, my bill had the support of more than two-thirds of Democrats, including Senator Kelly (my opponent), who voted for it in the legislature. So I’ve shown that I can reach across the aisle and make the case for the policies that we need in Kansas, and I’ll be making the case that our taxes are way too high. We’re the highest-tax state in the five-state area, and I can make the case, I believe, to the Democrats that we’ve got to give relief to hardworking Kansans. I think on the issue of illegal immigration, it doesn’t make sense to give $377 million a year in welfare benefits and other public benefits to illegal aliens, something Laura Kelly (my opponent) voted for, when our own Kansas families are having trouble making ends meet. If we’ve got so much money to give to the illegal aliens, why in the world are we not looking after Kansas families?

It’s not unusual in Kansas. We’ve seen that happen year after year, and you know the most recent case was Governor Hayden, who’s pro-choice and was thrown out of office because he was hiking taxes too much on property taxes, so it was a Democrat who went to his right. But I want to address what Laura Kelly (my opponent) said. She (my opponent) said she changed position on photo ID. She voted initially for my bill, which was a compromise bill, and she also changed her position on guns. She used to have a decent grade from the NRA; now she’s got an F, a horrible grade. In both cases, she changed her position so she could run for this office. One thing you know about me: I don’t change my position. I’ll do what I say I’m going to do.
Laura Kelly (my opponent), in the last nine years, has voted for four different tax hikes — two sales tax hikes and two income tax hikes. She’s  (my opponent), never met a tax hike she doesn’t like, and for her to claim that somehow she’s going to maybe consider cutting taxes in the future after she massively expands government spending is laughable. Look, I’ve shown that we have the room to cut taxes if you use natural attrition. That’s what I did in my agency. As the baby boomers retire — and they’re retiring at the rate of 11,000 a day nationally — you can allow people to leave government and not fill all the positions. That’s how I shrunk my agency by 18 percent, and we cut our spending by 34 percent. I’ll do that across the board in Kansas government through natural attrition and then return the money to taxpayers. In addition, I will put a 2 percent cap on property tax appraisal hikes. People are getting taxed out of their homes right now. People who intended to retire in their homes are suddenly finding, hey, these property taxes are going up through stealth tax hikes where the appraiser raises my value 15 percent, 20 percent, 25 percent in a single year. I will get that done. We have to look out for the Kansas taxpayer.
I’ll be doing much more than just cutting government through natural attrition. We’ll also be cutting government by looking at wasteful expenditures and programs. There was a study done a couple years ago in the legislature — it’s called the A&M study, which refers to the company that did it. They gave about 75 recommendations to the legislature about how they could save money. You know how many they have implemented? Fewer than 25. I’ll be taking those recommendations and implementing those as well to cut our spending in our government right now. The taxpayers of Kansas cannot afford it, and for Laura Kelly  (my opponent) to say we’re going to be increasing all of these programs and then maybe we’ll look at a tax cut is ridiculous.
No, the changes at DCF have not gone far enough, and if I am governor, we will overhaul that agency. Did you know that approximately 70 percent of the prisoners in the Kansas prison system were in foster care at one point in their lives? And it’s true, as Greg said, 75 children were lost from the system. Now, in most cases what happened is those people were foster children who ran away from the homes and then didn’t check in and tell the government where they were going. But did you know this? Most of them were teenage girls, and there is a high risk that some of them may have fallen into sex trafficking. This is a big problem. I am looking at this agency already, and one of the problems — one of the solutions to the problem is going to be this: many of the kids feel there’s nobody they can call at the state DCF agency to answer their questions when they’re in trouble. Indeed, they’re passed from committee to committee, from bureaucrat to bureaucrat. When I’m governor, each foster child will have one person who stays with him or her all throughout their childhood, so whenever there’s any problem at any foster family, foster home, they can call that person to know that there is somebody looking out for them. That’s what we’ve got to think about on a human level — somebody looking out for them.
I am opposed to legalizing marijuana in Kansas, certainly opposed to recreational marijuana legalization, and when it comes to medical marijuana, I don’t think the time is right at this point. The FDA is about to approve, we believe in pill form, CBD, which is the beneficial component of marijuana. I’d like to see if the individuals who believe that marijuana could help with debilitating conditions can find equal treatment or better treatment in the CBD pill form. Let’s use that first, because if we go and take the step to medical marijuana, we have found in every state that’s tried it that there’s always a doctor somewhere who will write a prescription for anybody, and that becomes a gateway into recreational marijuana. And so it’s never been successfully restricted to those who are truly in medical need. So I would say, let science advance, let’s see how CBD does in pill form, and go from there.
Well, the two answers you’ve just heard illustrate the very liberal thinking of my two Democrat opponents. To suggest that people are going to move to Kansas because we have transgender bathrooms in our public schools is ridiculous. In fact, the biggest impediment to people moving to Kansas is that we tax them so much. But the idea that transgender bathrooms are going to cause families to up and move and come to Kansas is, in fact, false, and if anything the opposite might occur if we were to allow transgender bathrooms. I oppose transgender bathrooms in our public schools. I’m the father of five daughters, and we are increasingly getting to this politically correct thinking that a person can be a girl today and a boy tomorrow and a girl the day after that. I don’t want my girls going into a bathroom and then finding a boy in the bathroom because he’s decided that that day he’s a girl, and he’s doing that as an excuse because he’s really a sexual predator and he’d like to invade the privacy of my daughter. I don’t think any parent who thinks seriously about this wants something like that to happen. There’s an easy solution without going to transgender bathrooms, and that is let them use the faculty bathroom. If they object to using one of the students’ bathrooms, let them use a neutral bathroom. That’s how you solve the problem.
I do. I agree with that statement. I’ve said from the beginning of my campaign that I will address the culture of corruption in Topeka, and that culture of corruption has multiple elements. One is the no-bid contracts that Greg mentioned. Another one is, though, that did you know there are votes taken in Kansas committees that are not recorded, so Senator Kelly (my opponent) can vote and not have any of her constituents or anyone know how she voted? It’s only a voice vote, and you can only tell what the vote was if you were there in the committee. I also think we need term limits, and I’m the only candidate pushing for term limits in Kansas. The idea that there are only 125 people in our state who are qualified to serve in the House, or 40 people in the Senate, is ridiculous. We need new blood into the system. I support not only term limits for the legislature, but for all executive officials — the Secretary of State’s office, the Attorney General’s office. There should be eight-year limits so that we can bring new blood into Kansas, and that can help stop the culture of corruption. New people coming in makes it hard for those buddy-buddy relationships to persist that are part of the culture of friendship.
Yeah, absolutely stand by the ad. The 24% higher than surrounding states is from the publicly available price we pay per kilowatt hour, and a lot of people don’t realize this: residential electricity in Kansas costs us, on average, 13.4 cents per kilowatt hour. If you average the four states surrounding us, it’s only 10.9 cents per kilowatt hour. That is a big problem, both for us and balancing our pocketbooks, and for businesses trying to decide whether to stay in Kansas or go somewhere else, and there are many businesses that are leaving for that reason. The bill that increased our electricity rates more than $600 per household was later reviewed by policy organizations. It was the bill that forced our power companies to diversify the types of power that they had, didn’t let them do it as was affordable and could be done in a way slowly to address so that it wouldn’t increase the bills on consumers, and Laura Kelly voted for that. So we absolutely have to address high utility rates. I will do it. I’m the only person on the stage who’s talking about doing it.
Right, they don’t. They don’t set utility rates, but the bill that she (my opponent) voted for forced the utility companies to build additional infrastructure, and when they did that, they then have the authority to demand — not just ask for — to demand that our power rates go up. And so that had a direct cause-and-effect relationship. Our utility bills went up because of the bill that she voted for. This idea that legislators should be telling the utility companies to spend money and then charging us for it is part of the problem, and that lack of responsibility that we have seen on the left, where any environmental excuse is good enough, has to end.
You know, that ad is a perfect example of what’s wrong with politics today: politicians who will lie just to win office. You know, when she ran that ad, I saw that word “overfunded,” and I thought to myself, that’s not a word I use. I’ve never — that’s just not one of the words in my vocabulary. So we looked at the article she (my opponent) cited, and the article actually had a Kansas City Star reporter using the word “overfunded,” and he was referring to a debate in Edgerton. So we got the transcript of the debate and we read every word in the debate, and the word wasn’t in there. So she’s (my opponent) willing to lie, and we called her on it, and she’s still running ads using the same words. You know, I’ve never said our schools are getting too much money. I’ve said indeed we should continue to increase funding for our schools, but the problem is we’re not looking at where the money’s going. I think we should put 75 cents of every dollar into classroom instruction. Unlike the status quo, which Laura Kelly favors, if we did that, we would see teacher salaries go up, we would see classroom materials being provided, you wouldn’t have teachers having to buy materials out of their own pocket and bring them to class instead of spending so much money on lavish administration, extra redundant administrators, and big buildings. That’s my plan.
We have a constitutional crisis going on right now in Kansas. The Kansas Supreme Court has seized the authority of the legislature to determine adequate spending amounts for education. They’re the only Supreme Court in the nation that has done this, and I can say this as a former professor of constitutional law: Article 6, Section 6 of the Constitution that they point to has nothing in there that says that this court can force an adequate amount of dollars to be spent for every child. Now, what we should be doing under my plan is, as we increase spending on education, let’s ensure that instead of spending 53 cents of every dollar in the classroom, spend 75 cents of every dollar in the classroom, and then we’ll see educational outcomes improved. You know, we’ve increased overall spending for 20 years, but we’ve seen our educational test scores flat. The second part of my plan is this: I want every school to be given a letter grade, A through F, and if any school increases its letter grade, say from a C to a B in any given year, then everybody in the building gets a raise — the teachers, the principal, the assistant principal, the coaches, the janitor — so everybody has a financial stake in improved performance.
Yeah. When Senator Kelly (my opponent) says that we need to keep the three branches of government in balance and this is evidence of that, that shows that she hasn’t actually studied our constitutional structure. You know, Alexander Hamilton wrote Federalist 78. He talked about the three branches of government, and he talked specifically about the judiciary, and he said we need not fear the judiciary because it has neither the power of the sword nor the power of the purse. But in Kansas, we have turned Alexander Hamilton’s words sideways, and the court has seized the power of the purse. It is your elected representatives who decide how much money to spend.
I’d give Kansas an A-minus right now. I believe strongly in the right to keep and bear arms. We do have pretty good expansive rights for gun owners in Kansas. The idea that violent crime is increasing because we have the right to keep and bear arms is ridiculous. The bad guys, the lawbreakers, are going to break the law no matter what the law is, so to say that we law-abiding gun owners should have fewer rights because violent crime goes up is exactly wrong. The only thing that stops a bad guy with a gun is a good guy with a gun. We need the right to protect ourselves, and both of my opponents have voted, have said — in the case of Greg Orman (my opponent) — or voted, in the case of Laura Kelly, to restrict our gun rights. That’s why Laura Kelly (my opponent) has an F from the NRA and I have an A-plus. They both want to restrict magazine capacity. They both want to limit our concealed carry rights. It is our concealed carry rights that protect us when the government is not there, because sometimes when a citizen is in trouble in a dark parking lot, on a dark campus, you can’t get a police officer there in time, and our citizens need the right to protect ourselves. I will continue to protect our gun rights.
Thank you for the compliments on my family. I agree. I think Senator Kelly (my opponent) is one of the most experienced legislators in the Kansas Senate. I think she is one of the legislators who actually reads the bill and does some homework, and too few people do that in the Kansas legislature. I think Greg Orman is actually someone who’s got a wealth of experience, and he’s very thoughtful as he approaches the issues, and I think his quest to sort of form some sort of identity outside of the parties, although I don’t think it will succeed, I think it too is thoughtful.

I would ask you: if you like the status quo in Kansas government, if you do like the status quo and think nothing should change, then you should vote for one of my two Democrat opponents, because if they are elected, you will have four years of absolute gridlock. The Republican legislature will pass a bill and they will veto it, pass a bill and veto it. If I’m elected, I will lead, and as you’ve heard tonight, I have many ideas that will take our state in a bold new direction, offer tax relief to Kansans. We will also stop giving away your money to illegal aliens, and we’ll fight for things like term limits and things that will change the game completely in the state of Kansas.

