Thank you Kentucky!! I am proud of this victory and I am proud to be your nominee for governor!! Tonight we not only won this primary, we did something we are going to do in November - we got more raw votes than Matt Bevin (my opponent). Isn't Jacklin Coleman an incredible force? I couldn't ask for a better running mate than a powerhouse teacher, assistant principle, and basketball coach and isn't it time for n the the first active educator to serve as lieutenant governor since Martha Colins. I am so appreciative of each and every one of you that voted for this ticket. Jacklin and I are going to be in each and every community across this state working to earn the support of each and every Kentuckian as we move forward. I have received phone calls from both Rocky and Adam and I know this was a tuff campaign but I want to thank them for each of their pledges to support this campaign wholeheartedly. Now there is going to be a lot of punditry in the next few days, asking how we stack up in the general election, whose up and whose down, but tonight I want to tell you how I see this election. It is not about what is going on in washington DC, its not about the nasty attacks that MAtt Bevin has already launched starting tonight, and its not about right vs left. Folks its about right vs wrong. It is wrong when Matt bevin tries to strip healthcare from thousands of our families. It is wrong when he tries to slash out workers' pensions. It is wrong when he tries to tear down public education and it is wrong when he fails to create good jobs in eastern and western Kentucky because every part of our state deserves to succeed. ANd if you don't believe me just look at the fact that our governor (my opponent)just barely got 50% of his vote tonight. I think it can be as simple as a phrase - a phrase I have been thinking every single day since I have been serving in frankfort - we were raised better than this. We were raised better with the bullying we are seeing in frankfort. We were raised better than the namecalling we are seeing in Frankfort. And when we win on November 5th we are going to start acting better than what we are seeing too. I know we were raised better than this because I was raised right here in Kentucky. And I was raised to believe that each of us has an obligation to give back. And that I have always been driven by faith and family. And I have two special people to thank for that - my mom Jane and my dad Steve Beshear. And tonight my older brother drove about 12 hours from Virginia just to be here - thanks for being here Jeff. When I am asked about my parents the nicest thing I can saw is that they taught me to be a good parent. And the lessons they taught are exactly what I try to pass along to our two children. Folks Ill be a governor just like I have been an attorney general who fights for the lost, the lonely and the left behind. A governor for every Kentuckian - rich, poor and in the middle. Democrats, Republicans, and indepentdents, eastern central and western kentucky - I will do right by all our neighbors. And heres what that means to me - it means protecting healthcare for all our families - and folks I not only have a plan, i have the fight to do so. It is simply wrong for an insurance company to kick someone off their coverage for a preexisitng condition. It is wrong. Its wrong for them to discriminate against women and charge them more for the same coverage as men. And it is wrong for them to set lifetime caps to where a child with a a disease runs out of money, runs out of luck, or runs out of coverage before they reach adulthood. Im gonna be a governor that prevents that from happening to any kentucky family. You see my family standing right here, three out of four of us have a pre-existing condition. This is real to me. And I know its real to you. Doing right means doing right by our neighbors by finally tackling this opioid epidemic. I have lived this just like you have. About two years ago I pulled an overdosing man from a car in downtown lexington so that eventually an emt could administer narcane. I watched the life drain from his face. The colors change as most of you have seen it. He died in front of us - didn't breathe for three minutes until narcane brought him back. That stays with you. I have sat with far too many moms and dads, and I've sat with too many children who have lost that loved one that is supposed to be with them all their life. Its about the worse thing that can happen to anyone and ill tell you - a lot of them put their faith in my not just as attorney general but in this campaign. I have received their calls and their texts since this campaign was called and I am going to repay their faith. WE are going to do it. Not just by continuing to take on these opioid companies in court but heres my commitment to you - i will fight every moment every day for the inches that become the feet that become the miles of progress to where we can put this epidemic that arose in our lifetime behind us in our lifetime - that is a legacy we should leave to our children. ANd I am going to fight every single day for the types of jobs that our people deserve. Instead of giving away huge giveaways to out of state CEO’s. I will build an economy that works for all of our workers and in all of our regions. Where your regions finally go up faster than your power bill, gas bill, and grocery bill. I'm gonna be the guy that favors our workers and never that out of state CEO - that is the difference between me and Matt Bevin (my opponent). ANd Im gonna work every single day to fully fund and strengthen our public schools. I believe so much in public education that I chose a teacher as my running mate. And I look forward to her voice leading us in so many areas of education because knowing exactly what goes on in the classroom is going to  help us make better policy thatn you have ever seen. You know Matt bevin is gonna try to made this election about anything other than his record because it is one of total failure. He is wrong on virtually every single issue and he knows that if he doesn't distract us that he will loose. He has bullied our teachers, our first responders, our social workers. Hes called them names and he has shoved them out of the capital that is there house but we are not going to let him distract us. We are not going to let him pull us away from the issues that matter the most to people. That is why I ran to be your attorney general and that is why i focused so much these last three years on people who need our help the most, Like their victims and their families. Its why after three and half years I can tell you that Kentucky is one of two states in the country with zero untested rape kits. And it is why we are working to end this culture of sexual assault that we see. And I have got thank Megan Right who is up here tonight, Megan was willing to face her trauma again in a very public way, to have people try to bully her on twitter and other forms of social media because she is the change we need and she know we are going to lift up her voice to make that change. You know we fought just as hard for our seniors and every single day they are scammed out of their life saving- savings that they are using to raise the next generation and you know we have fought to protect your pensions. It's this fight - this fight that makes me love being your attorney General and it is exactly why I want to be your governor. And not just be your governor but govern well. Ill be a governor who measures our progress not by any approval rating but by how we can make our peoples lives better. How we can invest in our people and in our schools. How we can create the types of jobs and careers here in Kentucky that my children and your children will stay for - how we can work for regardless of political party. To restore honesty, decency, and transparency in this state government. And I promise you tonight that I am going to be a governor for everyone and not just the people who voted for us. This is an amazing state filled with amazing people - we have so much promise, but what we need to do is to be brought together. Its what I see everyday when a republican teacher chases be across the parking lot and says I have never voted for a democrat in the past 10 years ago but this governor (my opponent) has crossed the line and we trust you to restore decency. Im gonna be a governor for everyone who is working a deadend job. Who feels like at the ene of the month they pay more in bill than they bring in and they are worried about leaving their kids better off. Im gonna be the type of governor that is finally going to get equal pay for equal work. If you can't tell, that is pretty important to me- i have a daughter and I have a son and they deserve to be paid the same amount for the same work. So these next five months and the next four years are about you and im gonna fight for you everyday, everyday. I wanna conclude by thanking my family, my wife britnee is most incredible and understanding partner I could ask for. And if you get just a tiny glimpse of her huge heart she would make an amazing first lady. And I want to thank my two kids, my son will and my daughter lila I love you guys so much. And lila and will, Im not gonna make as many baseball games and im gonna miss a few more horse shows but I am so proud of the thoughtful, kind and truly good people you are growing up to be. You make me proud every day. ANd finally to everybody who chipped in, everyone who made a phone call, everyone who held a meet and greet, everyone who called a neighbor, everyone who fought for that little vote. This victory tonight is yours- congratulations. And to everybody else the office of governor is not something anyone is entitled to, its something that you have to earn. So the next five months Im gonna be out there earning every single individual, who voted a different way tonight - im going to earn your vote. So lets get to work, lets get out there, lets beat Matt Bevin ( my opponent), and lets win this governors race! 

