

Well first of all, what’s been really important in my experience is seeing what barriers are to job creation in the private sector—how overregulation, or energy costs, health care costs are barriers to that. I’ve seen that as attorney general, and I also understand what the state has been able to do, like the governor has with investments in life sciences, to spur job creation. To work as a good partner with schools and to provide for the growth in the economy that we are seeing happening already. And I think one of the differences between us (me and my opponent) is that I see the need to keep those jobs going but also the real need to invest in our workforce so that our kids and people will have the jobs and the job skills to keep them here. 

And sure, and that’s why I have a regional economic development plan that does precisely that in 13 regions, aligning what’s happening in our schools already with curriculum, with making sure that as we roll out half a billion dollars over the next 10 years we will build an economy from the ground up—one that’s sustainable, one that invests in our kids, in our workforce, so that we won’t have jobs going begging as we do now, and we won’t have people unemployed as we do now.

Well, because the public sector doesn’t necessarily create jobs, but the public sector plays a big role in how jobs are created. I’ll give you one example: a company in Fitchburg that had very expensive energy rates—they wanted to do on-site outsourcing of energy production. We helped them cut red tape so they could put up a wind turbine, and because of that, helping them do that, they saved money, they hired 300, 400 more people in that Simonds factory.
First of all, I wasn’t involved in that, I don’t know. I think the governor needs to be more transparent about what actually happened, and until we have what and why, I think he needs to explain that.
So let’s just go back about transparency, about Big Dig financing, putting the financing, kicking that can down the road, being transparent about letting go 700 Department of Mental Health workers, outsourcing that as mental health—so I’m happy to stand on my record. I didn’t have anything to do with that particular decision, but let’s be transparent about our own records and the decisions we’ve made and the values that drive those decisions. That’s what’s at stake in this race.
That’s fair as far as it goes. 
First of all, that’s a market issue, not a taxpayer issue, about the availability of natural gas.. You’re talking about taxes and that was that. But let me just respond to that: because back in 2010, and now you’re for it, but back in 2010 you were against Cape Wind. In the last four years, years when you have not been on the scene, I, as the ratepayer advocate over the last eight years, have brought back $700 million on behalf of consumers, standing up to utilities, to National Grid, to making sure that none of those costs were passed along. We have come much farther along in clean energy technologies than we would have thought three years ago. SO we need to catch up I agree with that but you can not take this one season and say “the either I (my opponent) or the governor have not done our job in moving towards energy efficiency which we have done an enormous amount of and clean technology that we are leading the country in.
That is not true, that is absolutely not true. 
 Iook both my opponent and I and Charlie (my opponent) has refused to take a no new taxes pledge so let's be honest about what we're both talking about I've been straightforward and saying I think in order to move forward we need to invest in this state we need to invest in businesses we need to invest in our kids we need to invest in our Workforce Development because otherwise you're missing that equation what Charlie  (my opponent) has proposed is at least 300 million of tax cuts maybe 600 million according to the Boston Globe so he says well I'll find that money somewhere but that's okay he'll find that money somewhere he also talks about all the kinds of things that he wants to do now including Workforce Development so where does that money come from I at least am saying I know what my priorities are investing in kids in investing in schools investing in roads and bridges is why I support the indexing of the gas tax
They would be taxes on the people in the top two percent. Well, we are exploring ways to do a more graduated income tax. I know this legislature just did a study on that.

 I’ll comment on this this. Every four years someone says they’re not going to raise taxes on the middle class, all right, and we’ve been hearing that for seven years with one-party rule on Beacon Hill: gas tax—middle class; sales tax—middle class; satellite TV—middle class; registry fees—middle class. Most of these tax increases, property taxes, fees for after-school sports—all this stuff lands on the middle class. And that’s one of the reasons why I’ve said I’m not going to raise taxes, because I think the middle class feels strapped already, and the last thing they need is another four years of getting nickel-and-dimed again.
I have always said that we should be looking at whether tax breaks given to businesses bring the money back and have clawback provisions if they don’t. 
I wish they treated it like a football. They’re not doing anything about it. They’re not even handling it. And so I know other states have reached solutions on that, Charlie, and I said I would look at it, particularly as now we have to move to a new system of Real ID. There are going to be people in Massachusetts who aren’t going to be able to get those because they don’t have their birth certificates. There are a lot of people inconvenienced, and I think this is an appropriate time, and I’ve said this during this campaign, there are a lot of people who have been here for a long time. They can’t get to work, they can’t get to a medical emergency if they don’t have licenses. I’ve talked to police chiefs. I don’t know exactly how we do it—there’s some pending legislation—but we have to address this issue for people in Massachusetts who are in our communities and make sure that we address it as a public safety - . 
Well, I support what the governor has done also, but I support looking at extending that. I think that for kids who have come here through no doing of their own—I met a young woman just yesterday who said, you know, I want an education. I came at four years old from Chile and I need to get a job. We should be encouraging people who are law-abiding, who want to work, the opportunity to do that.

I think that certain cities and towns have looked at giving the local option. I think that there should be some requirements ahead of time, but I do believe—and I’ve seen, particularly over the past year, whether you’re in Framingham with the Brazilian population, you’re in Chelsea, you’re in Revere—we have a new Massachusetts. We have a lot of new residents who are here. They’re going to be here. I know Washington isn’t going to move. I’m not afraid to sue Washington when they’re not doing what they should. I think that’s up to the local authorities, but I certainly wouldn’t oppose it.
Just don’t call me sweetheart (referencing her opponent calling a reporter that and receiving backlash for it)
And we’re not accusing him of being sexist. He’s done great work. He’s done a good job in the tasks he’s taken on. I think the real issue for me, and I think for voters, is who do you see, who do you work with, who are you going to champion when you move forward? Look, the first response for me in the Hobby Lobby decision was “oh no,” because it’s not just about contraception, it’s about other forms of discrimination. And I’ve been very much involved in these issues because they’re personal to me. They’re personal to young girls and women getting equal pay, making sure they have access to health care. These aren’t academic issues that I overthink. These are things that I know are real issues for people in the Commonwealth, particularly women.
Well, that’s also what this debate is about and that’s what this race is about, and so I’ll put my record up against yours. I’m not criticizing what you did. I just think it shows that when you are taking over Harvard Pilgrim, you do increase premiums, you do outsource mental health, and your salary goes up. I wouldn’t make those choices, Charlie (my opponent). And I have, in my lifetime as a prosecutor and as an attorney general, always made the decision to stand for people not to lose their jobs. There were 200 jobs outsourced to India at a time when Harvard Pilgrim had already been turned around. There were 700 DMH employees who lost their job, and people left without mental health care because of your decisions. We can debate about whether you’re a good guy or not—I don’t dispute that. It’s about the values that drive your choices, and I think voters are certainly—
Well no, but one piece of that—it’s in The Globe today—that we wanted, let’s assume we wanted to take people out of those institutions, but the missing piece was providing the supports and the care for them once they were out. Seven hundred workers lost their jobs. Only 60% of that amount then went for outpatient services. And Charlie, I’m working in the district attorney’s office at the same time, I see the uptick that people are homeless, people have mental health problems who end up in the criminal justice system because we didn’t take care of them.
Yeah. I think that people still think, you know from 2010, that I don’t have a sense of humor or I’m too chilly, and I’ve worked for four years to overcome that. But um
I’m not a gambler. I haven’t been down to Foxwoods So let me tell you—What I have done is, when this first appeared as a proposal in Massachusetts, I knew that we weren’t ready for it. We didn’t and I know from working with the attorney general in New Jersey and Nevada the kind of oversight and regulatory work you have to do around everything from money laundering to organized crime infiltration to human trafficking. And so one of the things I did do as attorney general, and with folks in our office, was work really closely in crafting this statute, looking at what we had to do here in Massachusetts if we were going to maximize the economic benefit and minimize the social ills.
we’ll know in two weeks, and I have said if it is repealed I would consider, as part of a regional economic development plan for Springfield, that kind of leveraging of an economic—with a casino that could provide growth for other industries. 
Sure. I mean, it’s one of the reasons why I’m against internet gaming. It’s one of the reasons why we have brought very strict consumer protections to make sure there’s no lending of money on casino premises, to make sure you can’t be foreclosed upon if you somehow get into debt because of a casino. So there are consumer protections we’ve worked on. I’d continue to do that as governor if we do move forward here.
Well, first of all, we have made changes. Speaker DeLeo took the lead, and I worked with him to make sure on hearings there’s more information before people are released on bail. And frankly, judges should at least be reviewed on some of the decisions they make. There’s an internal process that happens now. They have not made that public. And look, Marjorie, you and I have talked about this for years. You can always take one case and say, well, this was the wrong decision. That’s obviously not the right result in that case. I think the prosecutor has— No, I understand. And it doesn’t sound like it’s a bail situation so much. That was the instance there where he got out on bail before he was convicted. This is leniency in sentencing. We have sentencing guidelines. We have an ability—not for the prosecutor—but to appeal it. Getting that balance with judges is tough, but it’s something that I care deeply about, and I think it should be part of the process when judges are confirmed. 
Well, right now it’s an internal review that’s done by the courts with input from litigants and lawyers who have appeared before those judges. They have not made that public, but I believe—
Well, perhaps in cases like this where the results appear to be not consistent with public safety and defendants’ rights.
Well, first of all, the case was so compelling that the judge dismissed it. Let’s be clear about what happened in this case. We did represent the government in that case—that’s my job—and I always do that to the best interest of the children and the families that we need to represent. Let’s be clear about what’s going on here. There are outside lawyers who were suing us with a one-size-fits-all solution. It wasn’t the right solution for Massachusetts. I thought better use of that money was to go into DCF. I do believe that we need to restructure the agency. I’ve had a plan for that since I’ve worked with that agency for 25 years. We have an agency that has a mission to protect kids allegedly but to keep families together. It's a mixed mandate but they don't do it right and the pendulum swings -we leave kids in, we take them out. We need to change it. And by the way I’m glad you’re (my opponent) advocating for all these changes while you’re running for governor, but you (my opponent)  had an opportunity as secretary and undersecretary of Health and Human Services to look at caseloads, to look at technology, and one year you reverted $2 million when you could have used it to hire more social workers for those caseloads. I was working in a child abuse unit seeing those caseloads go up.
It’s not just about money, Marjorie. 
But we could give them more money, and if we give them more money and the problems don’t get solved because the structure of the agency doesn’t work to give a mission to the social workers, so you have untrained social workers who don't get enough support who have case loads that are too big. I have worked with terrific social workers, I don’t mean to criticize them, but we need to change the structure of the agency, and then we need to say, with an increase in technology—Charlie (my opponenet) would probably agree with me—we need to better communicate what the mission of that agency is and what the workers are supposed to do, and hold them accountable when they don’t meet those measures.
Yeah, and it was not that lawsuit. It was not settling that lawsuit for the one-size-fits-all result that the outside lawyers wanted. I absolutely refuse—you (my opponent) say, I’ve read the brief. The brief is by the partisan lawyers—and you’ve  (my opponent) said you’d (my opponent) rather give a lot of money to outside lawyers to tell Massachusetts what to do. I don’t think that’s a good solution for a manager, and I don’t think that’s what a governor of the state should do.
Well, but the facts in that ad are accurate. Premiums went up, salary went up—that is the difference between those two ads. There’s factual inaccuracies. I think that ad about DCF is heinous, not just about me, but suggesting that somehow I sat by while children were killed—that’s outrageous. But this is a campaign and I understand that, and unless—and I asked Charlie (my opponent) and he wouldn’t do it—unless we take the People’s Pledge, there’s no way to control these. 
I disagree. 
Well, let me first say I think that we want in Massachusetts community policing, not combat policing, and that means having well-trained and diversified police departments, and I would propose getting men and women in our firefighting, police services by loan forgiveness, or getting people involved in areas of public service that would address some of those issues, at least for policing.
Well, in fairness, I’ve done that for about 18 years as an assistant district attorney and district attorney with community policing Community Based Justice Domestic violence victims so I’d glad you got the ride along. It is an important job for the governor to make sure that we have a good criminal justice system that is fair to everyone. 
This is where we differ, because to me it’s about education. I think we’ve made this distinction between charters or not charters. Remember, charters were the reason that we were able to see what works and what doesn’t work—extended learning time, early education, which I support and Charlie (my opponent) doesn’t—the ways in which we’re going to give every kid the best possible education. It’s not about charters or not. It’s about making sure we keep that promise to take those best practices from charters and see them in our district schools. We’ve got pilot innovation schools. We know what works.
Well, I still support universal pre-K. What I’ve said is that we are going to start with 17,000 kids at $150 million immediately to get them into places that we have. There are parents that have that ability now. I’m trying to level the playing field and make that start for the kids that we know need it.
No. The minimum wage has been passed. I think most people supported that. It makes sense because we have families that are living from week to week to pay their rent or to put food on their table. I met a couple that works at Logan Airport. She works all night cleaning planes. He works all day cleaning planes. They can barely afford to put food on their table for their 16-year-old child. That’s not right, and the corporations they work for are doing quite well. This income inequality, as we turn this economy around, has to be for everybody.
I think that it is absolutely a cost of doing business that they will be able to afford. This is a right for people who—most people in this audience tonight, and I bet many of our viewers, don’t worry about earned sick time. If they are sick, if their kid is sick, they are not about to lose their jobs if they don’t show up. And it’s a public health issue if people are sick. And, Jim, it mostly affects women. It’s disproportionately on minimum-wage women who do have child care responsibilities who don’t have those vouchers yet for early education. This is just a fairness issue and I support it. I think people overwhelmingly in Massachusetts support it.
—1.2 million people who wouldn’t get sick time or earned sick time under Charlie’s (my opponent’s) proposal.
The premises in your question are false, Marjorie. That statute—because I’ve been fighting, as everybody knows, to keep people in their homes—the big barriers, Fannie and Freddie—the only purpose in that statute was to make sure that homeowners could stay in their homes. It’s not the only company that does that. It’s a not-for-profit, and we disclosed everything we did that we needed to. We did exactly what we needed to do. 
We checked and we checked again, and we did exactly what we did. All of her contributions were disclosed. That’s what the law requires. We did everything we needed to do.
Yeah, because he’s (my opponent) under investigation now for a pay-to-play scheme. Those facts, at least on their face, indicate, at least from my point of view, a reason to investigate. He’s  (my opponent) under investigation. He (my opponent) said under oath 33 different times—he (my opponent) filed—that he (my opponent)  was a partner and employee of it. If that’s the case, then he (my opponent) is in violation of the law, and if he’s not, then he should disclose his contract with the General Catalyst relationship.
Okay, he (my opponent) could resolve it by disclosing his employment contract—that would be the easiest route. 
absolutely, I have been completely transparent. When we have had errors that have been pointed out, we fixed them. It’s not a fine—we reverted the money to where it should have gone, and I always have done that. That’s the transparency. That’s why I’m calling on you (my opponent)  to release your employment contract.
Okay, fine, come on. Reese Witherspoon, how’s that? Liam Neeson would play him

Yeah, I think, you know, I am most concerned about kids like young girls at Germaine Lawrence School for Girls and others in not-for-profit settings that just don’t have the resources—boys and girls, frankly—to get what they need. Not just sports, but social work, mental health help that they need. There’s a lot of really troubled kids in the state that need help.
Thank you. 
