Thank you Fancy Farms and thank you to the governor for finally showing up. I guess we got to thank the koch brothers too for letting him. I guess they didn't tell him that Fancy Farms wasn't one of their fancy resorts. We hope you enjoyed Aspen Governor (my opponent). It is great to be back in Western Kentucky. My family is from here, and I was raised with your values of family, faith, and hard work. I am the only candidate in this race with Western Kentucky roots but wait a minute -  I’m the only candidate in this race with any Kentucky roots. One thing we love about Fancy Farm is trying to decide who had the best and funniest one-liners. So I asked the organizers if I could spend my time just playing Matt Bevin’s (my opponent’s) rap song because, let’s face it, nothing could be funnier than that. Governor (my opponent), your staff lets you do that, and you fire Janine Hampton’s folks.
Matt Bevin (my opponent)  is reckless and erratic, but if there’s anything consistent about him—other than his low poll numbers—it’s that he likes to wear this little red pin with scissors on it. Those scissors are a great symbol for his first term. He cut the price of his mansion in half, he slashed the budget of public education, and he’s trying to cut people off health care. It seems the only thing he won’t use those little scissors on is Charles Grindle’s salary. The other thing consistent about this governor is he never takes responsibility. He always talks about shoveling out a barn after a long winter. Well, Governor (my opponent), here in Kentucky we don’t shovel barns—we muck stalls. And while you’re more show pony than workhorse, you’ve left us a lot of manure, and the only thing we’re shoveling out of Frankfort this fall is you, right out of town.
You know, folks, today we have a rolling stone and a sinking one as well. Folks I know we have a lot of fun at Fancy Farm and we get a little silly, but this race is very serious. It’s about issues we worry about every single night around our kitchen table. And folks This race comes down to four critical issues: public education, pensions, jobs, and health care. And on every single one of them, Matt Bevin (my opponent) is wrong.
On education, it’s wrong when Matt Bevin (my opponent) attacks and insults our teachers. It’s wrong when he takes money out of public education to give to his private school buddies. Matt Bevin (my opponent) is the single greatest threat to public education we have ever seen. Matt Bevin (my opponent) thinks our teachers are “ignorant thugs”. I think you are amazing and selfless. I believe in our teachers so much that I selected as my running mate Jacqueline Coleman, who will be the first active educator since Martha Layne Collins to serve as lieutenant governor.
To our teachers, under a Beshear-Coleman administration, you will always be respected. You will never be locked out of your Capitol, and you will always have a seat at the table.
On pensions, it’s wrong when Matt Bevin steals the retirements of our teachers, social workers, police officers, and public servants—and worse, he sticks it in a sewer bill. Jacqueline and I will keep our pension promise, bring in new revenue without raising taxes, and we will treat our public servants and everyone else with dignity and respect.
On health care, it’s wrong when Matt Bevin (my opponent) sides with the insurance and pharmaceutical companies trying to tear away our coverage. That’s why I’m fighting this governor (my opponent) and those companies trying to tear away coverage for pre-existing conditions. When I sit around my table at night and look at the people I love most in the world—my wife Brittany, my daughter Lila, and my son Will—three out of four of us have a pre-existing condition. I bet that’s the same at your tables too. They are also why I am fighting these pharmaceutical companies that are gouging us every day. I sued the three largest makers of insulin. It costs $7 a vial to manufacture, and they are charging Kentuckians up to $300. Under a Beshear-Coleman administration, we will work to make sure no one ever has to ration their insulin again.
And on jobs, it’s wrong when Matt Bevin (my opponent) fails to create good jobs right here in Western Kentucky. He’s had four years, and he didn’t stand up here and tell you about one job in your area. I’ll create better-paying jobs—ones where you can raise your family working just that one job. We’ll invest in agrotech, which can make Western Kentucky a national leader, and we will build that I-69 bridge.
But folks, I’m running to be a governor for everyone. It doesn’t matter what part of the Commonwealth you’re in or what party you belong to—I’m going to fight for you. A few things I’m going to do differently than this governor (my opponent) : I won’t make Kentucky taxpayers foot the bill for multiple renovations on mansions he never uses. I won’t hire my buddies to crazy government salaries. I will continue to release my tax returns every single year. I will listen to you instead of insulting you. And I will always do the right thing.
At the end of the day, I’m going to be a governor who governs by the Golden Rule—that we treat thy neighbors as ourselves. And you know who our neighbors are? Everybody. Not just people who agree with us. Not just people in your political party. I’m going to be a governor for Democrats, Republicans, and Independents—for Western, Eastern, Northern, and Central Kentucky—for every single Kentucky family out there. Because at the end of the day, the challenges we face are the same, regardless of what side you’re chanting on here today.
What you heard from our governor (my opponent) today, and what you have seen every day of his administration, is an attempt to create an “us versus them.” Under a Beshear-Coleman administration, there will only be an “us.”
Thank you all very much.

