Thank you.
You know, it’s really true. I’ve had 34 trips to the Eastern Shore. I was there all day yesterday with stops in Salisbury, Cambridge, and Easton. You know, we’ve lost businesses throughout the entire state, but we’ve really lost more on the Eastern Shore than anywhere else. Eleven percent of all the businesses have left the state. Unemployment on the Eastern Shore — we’ve doubled unemployment in the state, but it’s even 50% higher on the shore, and seven of the counties over there are some of the worst ones. They have higher unemployment than the rest of the state and the rest of the country. And we’ve really got to focus on trying — we’ve lost 26% of our manufacturing base — we’ve got to find a way to attract more businesses to Maryland and bring some businesses to the shore, particularly because people are really hurting for jobs.
You know, Common Core seems to be really off on the wrong foot everywhere I go across the state. People are really concerned about this. It reminds me of the rollout of the healthcare, and the rollout of this Common Core has been somewhat of a disaster. We’ve got complaints from parents, students, and teachers. Even the teachers union calls this a train wreck. And we’ve had the lowest test scores on record this year because they’re just not prepared to roll — I mean, I’m all for standards, but we’re not prepared to roll this out. We’ve got to hit the pause button because we can’t just jeopardize our kids’ education experimenting with something that we’re not ready to roll out.
Yeah, we’ll push the pause button and then take a look and see if we can make sure we get it done right.
Well, you know, one thing — first of all, we’re not going to do anything to roll back any of the gun laws that have already been passed, and it’s become kind of a political football in this race. We’re seeing some negative commercials, but I want to work with the Democrats and work across the aisle to try to come up with some tougher laws to do more to keep guns out of the hands of criminals and the mentally ill. I think that’s something that the recent gun legislation didn’t do, and that’s where we’re going to focus.
No, we wouldn’t.
No, we’re not going to do anything to change the current gun laws.
Thank you so much.
