Well first I’d like to thank WJZ and the Baltimore Sun for giving us this opportunity. And I’d like to thank all of you at home for caring enough to take the time to watch. Folks, I’m not a professional politician. I’m just a small businessman and a lifelong Marylander who loves this state. And I’m running for governor because I’m really fed up with politics as usual in Annapolis and because I believe that our state is way off track and heading in the wrong direction. Forty consecutive tax hikes have taken an additional $1 billion out of the pockets of struggling Maryland families and small businesses, and it’s crushed our economy. We’ve lost 8,000 small businesses. Unemployment has doubled. Two hundred thousand Marylanders are out of work. We’re third in the nation in foreclosures. We’ve had zero economic growth, and our state economy ranks 49th out of 50 states. We’ve had the largest mass exodus of taxpayers fleeing our state of any state in the mid-Atlantic region and one of the worst in the nation. And sadly nearly half of all Marylanders want to leave the state. Folks, that’s simply unacceptable. The people of Maryland deserve better. That’s why I’m running for governor, and that’s why I need your help and your vote so that we can turn this economy around and bring real change to Annapolis.
Well, what the lieutenant governor (my opponent) just said really sounds pretty good. Unfortunately, it’s the complete opposite of his (my opponent)  8-year record of failure. You (my opponent) can’t say that you’re going to help middle-class families and struggling Marylanders when for the past eight years you’ve passed 40 consecutive taxes that are crushing struggling Maryland families. Most of the 40 tax increases that you’ve, you (my opponent) and your partner O’Malley, have pushed have hit people at the lowest end of the income scale the most. Those are the people that are struggling. I’m out there every day. I’ve been from one end of the state to the other. People have had enough. Seventy-one percent of the people in Maryland think taxes are too high. It’s the primary focus of my campaign. And there you go again with this nonsense about the corporate giveaways. Look, I’ve talked about the fact that we need to roll back as many of these 40 tax increases as possible, and 38 of them are regressive taxes that he hurt people at the lowest end of the income scale. You know, if you (my opponent) want to talk about corporate giveaways, you know, you’re the one that’s talking about giving away special tax credits for specific corporations and big corporations. I’m talking about tax release for all Marylanders. And, and quite frankly, the corporate giveaways we’re having now are we’re giving away our corporations to Virginia, we’re giving them away to North Carolina, we’re giving them away to other states because they’re all fleeing our state. We’ve lost 8,000 businesses. Taxpayers in Maryland are suffering. They just can’t take it anymore, and that’s exactly why I’m running. You (my opponent) say you now agree, but why haven’t you done anything about it for the past eight years? That’s the question. I mean, you’ve been in charge. You and Martin O’Malley presided over the largest tax increases in history, and now you say you’re going to have a blue-ribbon commission to review tax reform. You know when the last time we heard that was? In 2007, right before the largest tax increases in history. You know, we don’t need more of that. We need real tax cuts.
Well, I think we’ve done a good job in spending money for education. We’ve, in fact, it started with the Erlich administration and continued with this Administration, we’ve doubled spending on education here in Maryland. But I would say the results have been mixed at best. First of all, we have some of the best schools in the country here in Maryland, but unfortunately we’ve got some of the lowest performing schools in the country as well. And the gap between the best schools and the worst schools is 50th in the nation, and the gap between white students and minority students is the largest in the nation. Both of those gaps have gotten wider over the past eight years. So we need to invest money, but we’ve also got to look at other ways to improve education. I want to push more dollars down to the local level rather than having them eaten up in administrative costs. Put them into the classrooms. I want to make more decisions at the local level with parents, students, and teachers. We’re going to push the pause button on Common Core, which has been a complete disaster at this point. Our recent test scores are some of the some of the worst in recent memory. I push for, I want to push for charter schools. We have, we’re 50th in the nation in charter schools right now, and I believe every single child in Maryland deserves a quality education, and we’ve got to work hard to try to make sure that that happens.
Well, first of all, there he  (my opponent) goes again confusing the facts. I support pre-k, number one. He  (my opponent) runs commercials saying that I don’t support pre-k and that I’m going to take $300 million out of the pockets of kids and I’m going to give it to rich corporations. That’s obviously not true. I’m a big proponent of pre-k. We currently expanded pre-k to people that make 300% of the poverty level, so $73,000 per year. What the lieutenant governor  (my opponent) is talking about is expanding it to pay for everybody in the entire state, but he  (my opponent) doesn’t really have a plan about how to accomplish that, and he’s not talking about how to pay for it. And he’s actually not talking about making this happen until 2022. So basically, it’s a campaign promise that he’s trying to mislead voters into thinking he’s going to make happen, and I’m not, when in fact we both support the concept and the idea of pre-k. And the fact of the matter is, you know, politicians make phony promises all the time that they can’t deliver. I’m just a small businessman. I don’t want to overpromise and underdeliver. So when I said I’m not sure how we’re going to afford it at this point when we’ve got a $45 million shortfall, we’ve got a structural deficit, you know, we’ve increased spending during your Administration by $10 billion, and now you’re proposing 7 billion in new spending.

Well, first of all, almost everything that lieutenant governor (my opponent) just said wasn’t true. First of all, he keeps saying he doesn’t want to look at the past. He (my opponent) only wants to looks to the future, and he doesn’t want to talk about his (my opponent) eight-year record of failure. I mean, over the past eight years it’s a failed record of lost businesses, lost jobs, higher spending, and record tax increases. You know, you increase spending by 10 billion. That’s more than at a rate faster than 46 other states. Only three states in the country raised spending the way you did. You (my opponent) raised 40 taxes in a row that took 10 billion dollars out of the pockets of struggling Maryland families. And you know, the last time that you said, well, there’s not going to be any taxes, we don’t foresee any taxes in the future, was in the last election when you (my opponent) and Martin O’Malley said exactly the same thing, and then you raise 40 taxes in a row that crushed Maryland families and small businesses. Folks, it’s not about what somebody says. It’s about what they’ve done. We’ve got to look, I mean the lieutenant governor (my opponent) is asking for a major promotion, but he doesn’t want us to look at his record. And I think we’ve got to look to the past eight years to say what’s actually happened. You can’t say you’re going to cut spending when you’ve increased spending by more than almost anybody in the country. You can’t say you’re going to cut taxes, you’re not going to raise taxes, when that’s exactly what you’ve (my opponent) done. You’ve (my opponent)proposed in this campaign something like 7 billion in new spending. And here’s a fact for you. Without you doing anything else, the (my opponent’s) Brown O’Malley tax increases that have already taken 10 billion out of our struggling Maryland fam’s pockets is going to double over the next four years to $20 billion. It’s going to cost the average Maryland family $9,200 more per year thanks to you and Martin O’Malley raising taxes. That’s before you start to add new taxes to pay for all your new spending. Look, I’m running because I want to get the government off our backs and out of our pockets so we can grow the private sector, put people back to work, and turn our economy around. That’s the exact opposite of what’s happened over the past eight years.
Rounding era is when you (my opponent) say you cut 8 billion and you actually increase 10 billion. That’s an 8 billion rounding era.
Well, here’s the issue. Number one, the Chesapeake Bay is our most valued asset, and it’s a treasure for not only Maryland but for the entire country. Cleaning up the bay is going to be a top priority of the Hogan Rutherford Administration, but we’re going to go about it entirely different than this Administration. Rather than just blaming farmers and watermen and the rain that falls on the roof of your house, we’re going to take other actions. The 43% of all the sediment in the bay comes down the Susana River over the Conowingo Dam. It’s the number one issue. It’s been completely ignored for eight years. We’re going to push back to the federal government, both the EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers, who’s responsible for dredging these sediment ponds. We’re going to push back to make sure that Pennsylvania and New York pay their fair share. That’s one of the major problems we’ve had in cleaning up the bay and protecting our environment. But the most important problem we’ve had is been the my opponents Administration, and this doesn’t get a lot of attention, the media hasn’t really focused on it, but this Administration has raided 1.3 billion out of environmental trust funds. They took $460 million out of Program Open Space. They took money out of the Chesapeake restoration fund. They took even money out of the Chesapeake Bay Trust, when you buy the tags with the bay tags, they took the money out of there. 1.3 billion dollar was raided in one of these trust fund grabs, and one thing we won’t do, we won’t raid the trust fund. We’re going to try to replenish all the money, and we’re going to focus on the real problems in the bay, and that’s what we’re going to do in our Administration. The rain tax is universally hated by most people in the state. That’s the only solution that they’ve come up with, the rain that falls on your house. I can tell you that I’ve been going from one end of the state to the other. People everywhere are disgusted with that, and that’s not the only solution. We’ve got to do more.
Well, that all sounded good, but a lot of it was nonsense. First of all, I do believe in a balanced approach. I’m not talking about just pushing everything off. I talked about the fact that you  (my opponent) robbed $1.3 billion out of the environmental trust funds that we could have really done a lot of great work in the bay had we not done that. That’s where the priority should be, number one. And then you  (my opponent) went back to this again. You blamed it on the national recession and said we’re recovering better, that you cut in every department. You didn’t cut, lieutenant governor  (my opponent). You increased spending by 10 billion. That’s more than 46 other states. When you go from a $29 billion budget to a $39 billion, it’s not a cut, it’s an increase. There wasn’t any belt tightening. I mean taxpayers who were struggling during the recession, they had to tighten their belts. They had to make tough decisions. But you  (my opponent) didn’t. Your decision was just to raise 40 taxes in a row and crush Maryland families and small businesses. You’re  (my opponent)  talking about a balanced approach to balancing the environment. Well, we’ve killed 8,000 businesses. We’ve lost 200,000 jobs. You just can’t make things up. You can’t talk about the past eight years as if they didn’t happen. Most states in the country are recovering. We’re not. We’re 49th out of 50 states.
Well, I think the question was about why the campaign is so negative and that we have one of the most negative campaigns in the country, and I would agree with that, but it certainly hadn’t been coming from our side. The commercials that we’ve run, for the most part, have been very positive and focused only on the economic issues that we think are important, that we think most Marylanders are focused on. My opponent, the lieutenant governor, who’s unable and unwilling to talk about the serious economic problems of Maryland and unable to defend his 8-year record of failure, has chosen to try to distract voters away from those important issues and talk about things that are not nearly as much on the minds of the voters in Maryland, that he’s twisting and putting out these commercials that are completely false. I mean, we held a press conference, we went through every single commercial. He (my opponent)  has a new commercial out that has assault weapons in schoolyard, by the swing set, and in grocery stores, and says that I oppose background checks and that I want to put assault weapons in the hands of the mentally ill. I can assure you that’s 100% false. Now, I didn’t think that the s sp2a, first of all, I’m the only Republican in the that ran in this race in the primary who said I would not repeal s sp281, so we’re not rolling back anything, number one. Number two, I was concerned that the law didn’t go far enough in keeping guns out of the hands of the mentally ill and didn’t do enough to ensure that we have instant point-of-sale background checks and join the federal Nicks system, which 38 other states do. Maryland is the worst state in the country for reporting mental illness, which is a huge problem when we talk about these issues. I didn’t think the bill addressed that, which is why I opposed it. But you say I have this long record. I’m a small businessman. I’ve never voted for anything. I’m just talking about my opinion on the bill, and I’ve been very clear about where it is. Your commercials on that and everything else are 100% misleading.
Well, first of all, I’m going to go back and take the privilege of responding to some of these off-base attacks that just came from the lieutenant governor (my opponent). He (my opponent) says I have a 30-year record. I started a business 30 years ago, spent most of my entire life in the private sector. I did leave my business for four years to serve as a cabinet secretary. But he (my opponent) says that I oppose abortion even in the cases of rape and incest and that I want to take away birth control. That is just absolutely not true. It’s not my position now. It’s never been my position in my entire life. You’re (my opponent) taking some inaccurate article from 34 years ago that was referring to my father and not me. You know, I don’t have a 30-year record of opposing this. I’ve said we’re not going to roll back anything. Nothing is going to change with respect to reproductive rights whether I’m governor or the lieutenant governor (my opponent) is elected. So that’s another one of the false ads. It’s just wrong. I think you should apologize to the women of Maryland for trying to scare them. Now let’s go back to this issue on immigration. First of all, you know, we’re a nation of immigrants. My wife, Yumi, who’s here with me today, she’s a first-generation American. She immigrated from South Korea. My family came from Ireland, all four of my grandparents. You know, we’re a beacon of hope and freedom, and I understand why we want to be welcoming to immigrants who want to come to the United States. However, we’re also a nation of laws. You know, so we’ve got to figure out. I don’t blame people who want to come to the United States and break the rules. I understand they want a better life for them themselves and their children. Who I blame is the President of the United States and the Congress, both Republicans and Democrats in Washington, for failing to come up with any kind of a comprehensive immigration policy or strategy and for allowing it to happen.
Well, you know, for the most part we agree on that. The issue really is, I mean obviously it’s a humanitarian crisis and it’s a tremendous problem for the nation to have all these undocumented children crossing the border in waves, and my first concern is the health and safety of these children. And we do have to look at that, and I wanted to make sure as soon as they came across the border that we took care of their immediate needs, that they were fed, that they were clothed, that they were housed, that we took care of any medical attention. But I don’t think it made a lot of sense for Maryland to try to bring more of them to Maryland. We’ve taken 10 times more per capita than any other state, and I just don’t think it’s fair to the taxpayers in Maryland or to the children really to be bust thousands of miles away from their point of origin to be put into Maryland. It just didn’t make sense to me. So we have a little bit of a disagreement there. We do want to take care of the kids, but I think this administration’s been too aggressive in trying to go after this.
Well, we’ve got some of the toughest gun safety laws in the entire country, but that hasn’t stopped us from being one of the most violent states in the nation. And we’re in the top 10 in violent crimes, in crimes committed with guns, and in murder. So I’m not sure how much progress we’ve made. I know we’ve got a lot more to do. Crime is a serious problem here in Maryland, and I’ve been traveling all across the state. I’ve talked with people in urban areas, in rural and suburban areas, and I’ve met with local police departments and sheriffs and states attorneys, and I can tell you that the number one problem we have here in Maryland with respect to crime is heroin. We’ve got an epidemic of heroin. We’ve recently been called the heroin capital of the United States. I mean, it’s not just happening in inner-city Baltimore and in urban areas. This has infiltrated into small communities all across the state. I was up in Frederick and toured the jail where 60% of the people there are gang-related and drug-related with heroin. I was in St. Mary’s County in southern Maryland, and they said 60% of the problems that they’re dealing with there are as a result of heroin. I was in Caroline County, one of the smallest counties on the Eastern Shore, and I said what’s the number one problem facing your community, and they said heroin. Look, we’ve got the number one problem in the United States. Every state on the East Coast has declared a state of emergency on this problem. (my opponent’s) Our Administration currently has done nothing and hasn’t taken action even though that we’re the worst in the country. So one thing I’ll do immediately is get to work. We are going to call a state of emergency in January. We’re going to bring a summit together, to bring all the parties. We’re going to look at this problem of violent crime, drugs, and gangs that are infiltrating our state.

Absolutely, I would. You know, my entire campaign has been about nonpartisanship. You know, three and a half years ago I started a group called Change Maryland, which is the largest nonpartisan citizen group in state history. We’ve got 117,000 people involved, and half of them are Democrats and independents. My whole life has been about reaching across the aisle and trying to do what’s right and coming up with common-sense bipartisan solutions. The partisan redistricting that was done here in Maryland was probably the worst in the entire country, and it’s not something that should ever happen again. And I would definitely take these decisions out of the hands of the monopoly and the politicians in Annapolis and put it into an independent body of some kind. I think we need to take action. There are a lot of proposals around the country. I absolutely support removing the redistricting process out of the hands of politicians and putting it into a group that could make honest decisions.
Well, first of all, again, the lieutenant governor (my opponent) doesn’t want to claim any responsibility. He agrees that now we ought to do something about the terrible redistricting, but it took place during his administration. He (my opponent)  and Governor O’Malley presided over these worst districts that were drawn in the entire country. So I do agree with them though on the dysfunction in Washington. I mean, I can tell you I talk to people every single day who are just completely fed up with professional politicians, and they feel as if our elected leaders are not solving the problems. And they’re angry, quite frankly, with Republicans and Democrats, and that’s why I’ve been focused on nonpartisanship. And I think that’s what most people in Maryland would like to see instead of the partisan, the rabid partisanship in Washington and the monopoly that’s in Annapolis that doesn’t have any real honest and open debate and doesn’t have any real competition, no checks and balances. That’s one of the reasons why I’m running for governor.

Well, I guess my question would be to the lieutenant governor (my opponent)  why haven’t you strengthened the business climate, because it’s your policies, it’s your (my opponent)  regulatory environment, it’s your (my opponent) anti-business attitude in your  (my opponent) onerous tax policy that have driven 8,000 businesses out of the state. It’s caused us to double unemployment and lose 200,000 jobs. This, you, this is, you’re now saying you want to make us number one for business. But you killed 8,000 businesses. I mean, how is it going to change over the next four years from what you did over the past eight years? You got some responsibility there. You’re going to create all these jobs? Well, why did we almost lead the nation in job loss two months ago? Why have we lost 200,000 jobs? Why are we higher than the national average on unemployment? You know, what’s going to be different over the next four years? Look, this is the main reason why I got in this race. I started this group Change Maryland three and a half years ago. We’ve been focused on how to make Maryland more competitive. My organization, we held a business summit on improving Maryland’s economic competitiveness two years in a row where we brought in 400 business leaders together with economists and think tanks and the representatives of the federal, state, and local government from both parties, and we talked about this. We got three fundamental problems. One, we according to CEO magazine we’re 41st out of 50 states in business friendliness, and that will change on day one with me as governor because Maryland will be open for business and we’re going to focus on how to bring more businesses to Maryland, how to help our existing businesses grow and create more opportunities and more jobs for our citizens. Two, the regulatory environment that you (my opponent)  say you (my opponent)  want to try to clean up and streamline is the one that you (my opponent)  created over the past eight years, and it’s driven a lot of businesses out of the state. I talk to people who say they moved to Virginia and got things done in 90 days that they couldn’t get done in 3 years in Maryland because the right hand doesn’t know what the left hand is doing and they’re running around changing the rules all the time. Lastly, it’s our onerous tax policy. We’re the fourth highest tax state in the nation. It’s causing businesses to flee the state.
Well, that’s a tough question. It is. Well, first of all, I had the honor of serving for four years as a cabinet secretary in the Erlich Administration. I agreed with a lot of the things that they did. I can tell you one thing that I didn’t agree with, and something the lieutenant governor (my opponent) brought up earlier, tuition went up 40% under the Erlich Administration. I was never supportive of it, have never supported one penny in tuition increases at any point in my entire life, and in fact I’ve been the leading voice of opposition to the five years in a row that the lieutenant governor and the governor have raised tuition. So that’d be the number one issue. As far as something that they’ve (my opponent) done well, I think they’ve (my opponent) done a pretty good job of spinning the numbers and confusing people in the facts. That’s the only thing I can point to.
Well, first of all, I agree with a lot of what the lieutenant governor (my opponent)  just said, and I think he (my opponent)  has done a good job with respect to some domestic violence initiatives, and we talked about that just a few days ago when we kicked off domestic violence month and talked about some of the things that they had done well. I’m talking to folks all around the state, and women are really the ones that are most concerned about our economy. Women in Maryland are faced with, first of all, most households in Maryland are headed by women, and then in all households just about a lot women make a lot of the financial decisions, and they’re the ones that are suffering as a result of 40 consecutive tax hikes that have just crushed struggling families. Most of these are regressive taxes that hurt people at the lower end of the income scale. And the number one issue, the number one women’s issue in my opinion, is getting our economy back on track, putting women back to work so that they can support their families. With respect to the minimum wage, first of all, I’ve said we’re not going to do anything to change the minimum wage legislation. It is going to help some people at the lower end of the income scale, but there are drawbacks. I mean, people estimate that we may lose 12,000 jobs as a result. You (my opponent)  mentioned that the average minimum wage earner is a 33-year-old single mom. Well, it shouldn’t be that way. Minimum wage was designed for kids to get their first opportunity to join the workforce, and if we could restore our economy and bring businesses back and create better-paying jobs, then we wouldn’t have to deal with this issue. Lastly, you know, I support unfettered access to birth control for every single woman in Maryland, contrary to the commercials that my opponent has been running, and in fact we support over-the-counter birth control paid for by insurance. We’re going to do nothing to roll back women’s reproductive rights in spite of the attacks from my opponent.

Well, folks, this election is not really just your typical fight between Democrats and Republicans. It’s more important than that. This is a fight for Maryland’s future, and it’s a fight worth fighting. The decision that we make in just 28 days will have a lasting impact on the future of our state. It’s an important decision, and I believe that the voters of Maryland need to just make a simple choice. It really all comes down to this. If you’re comfortable with the status quo, if you’re happy with the direction that our state is heading, and you believe that a third term of O’Malley Brown (my opponent’s) policies would be good for you, your family, your future, and our state, then you should probably vote for my opponent. But if you agree with me that things are way off track, heading in the wrong direction, and that new leadership is needed in Annapolis, it doesn’t matter what part of the state you live in or what your party affiliation is, you need to vote to bring about that change. So I’m asking, if you want to bring real change to Maryland, I’m asking for your vote on November 4.
