Tom, it’s great to be here. And, uh, you say “face off,” it’s like it’s a sporting event, right?
Mhm. Look, you know, we’ve done a lot over the last eight years working together with Marylanders across the state, improving our schools and, you know, safety in our neighborhoods, creating jobs and opportunities. But this election isn’t about the past and progress and achievements that have been accomplished. It’s really about the future. It’s the choice that Marylanders have.
And, you know, in 39 days Marylanders are going to go to the polls, and there’s a choice. And with, you know, (myself) Anthony Brown and Ken Ulman on the choice is waking up every day working and fighting for Maryland’s working families and middle-class values, or Mr. Hogan (my opponent), who, you know, seems to favor a small group of the largest, wealthiest corporations at the expense of the middle class. That’s the choice that voters are going to have, and it’s really about the future and what’s next for Maryland.
Well, I think for starters we’re different people. I’m a first-generation American. My family immigrated — my father from Jamaica, my mother from Switzerland. I spent 30 years in the military, five on active duty, a year in Iraq in service to our country. Flew helicopters. I was in Iraq as a JAG officer with the Civil Affairs Command. You know, and I spent eight years in the legislature. Martin O’Malley’s background is different — big city mayor, worked with the council. And I think when I talk to voters, the question is less how do I differ from O’Malley, but what’s next for Maryland. So we’ve made progress in improving our schools, but what’s next? And that’s why I propose a universal voluntary pre-K for all Maryland four-year-olds. That’s why I propose more investments in career technology education, recognizing that not every student that graduates our high schools is going on to a four-year degree-awarding college but needs some skills to compete in this economy.So that’s what’s next in education, and that’s what Marylanders want to know — how do we build on where we’ve come? We’ve been through a tough economy, tough national recession, protracted recovery. What do we do to continue building opportunities and creating jobs in Maryland?
Sure. You know, every state, including Maryland and the federal government, had difficulties launching the exchange. These are large IT projects. When we launched our exchange and we encountered the difficulties that we did, we got to work. We refocused our vendors, got rid of some of them that didn’t perform as they promised to do under the contracts with the state of Maryland. We refocused our leadership, and we staffed up call centers and navigators around the state. And as a result, to date we’ve enrolled over 411,000 Marylanders who now have access to affordable, quality healthcare. You’ve got families who are now covering their kids up to age 26, women who aren’t paying more for health premiums because they’re women. So now we’re well on our way to the second open enrollment in November, meeting all the tests and the benchmarks, and we are very confident we’ll have a successful second open enrollment.
Well, the allegations just aren’t true, and I think it’s part of Mr. Hogan’s (my opponents) fantasy world that he lives in, you know, cheering for failure in Maryland. You know, we have welcomed — and we’re talking about the exchange — I know there are allegations that he’s making. Pay-to-play is what he was saying. Look, when anyone reviews the exchange, and we welcome a review of what happened, certainly they’ll see that the vendors failed to perform, but they’ll also see that Maryland stepped up and took some really significant actions to make sure that all Marylanders who needed insurance had access to health insurance. So it’s a silly season in campaigns, and I think Mr. Hogan’s (my opponents) getting pretty silly with his allegations. And why I think he’s doing that is he’s trying to divert the voter’s attention from issues that matter, like, you know, he opposes common-sense background checks before we issue gun permits. He opposed efforts to take assault weapons off the streets. He doesn’t want to expand universal pre-K.
Well, I’ll tell you what — there’s plenty of opportunities that he’s had to commit to universal pre-K, and he hasn’t taken any of them. And instead he’d rather give a large tax giveaway to the largest corporations, which is twice the value of what it would take to expand universal pre-K.
Well, I think first of all, whether it’s the humanitarian crisis of kids at our border or whether it’s the flow of undocumented immigrants into this country, it’s an example of the failure to pass comprehensive immigration reform in Washington. And you’ve got a Republican-controlled Congress who has refused to take any meaningful steps to protect our borders, to manage immigration in this country.
This country is built on immigrants, and immigrants have made contributions to the greatness that is our country and can continue to do so. But Congress has failed to step up.
In regards to the children, I mean, I think all of us would agree that we as people and as a nation have a responsibility to protect our children, no matter where you find them. So the framework that I have established is: let’s protect the children, reunite them with their families, return them when safe to do so to their country of origin, and whatever expenses the state incurs in education or social services, we have to be reimbursed by the federal government.
Thank you for having me this morning.
