Thank you Vic and Andy. I want to thank the sponsors WJZ, MPT, and the Baltimore Sun. I want to thank our audience here in the studio and that are watching this broadcast. Look, Maryland’s a great state and together we’ve accomplished a great deal in the last several years. We’ve built the best of the nation public schools. We lead the nation in college affordability. We’ve driven crime down to levels we haven’t seen in four decades. And we’re only one of six states who have come through the Great Recession with the AAA bond rating. But let’s be clear. This election is not about the past and where we’ve been. This election is about the future and what’s next for Maryland. I spent 30 years in the Army. I had the opportunity to lead soldiers, to train them, to care for soldiers and their families, to send them on missions, and often in some very unforgiving environments — giving them the leadership, the training, the resources so that they could complete their mission and come home safely to their families and the nation that we all love. I had the privilege of serving with patriotic men and women on campaigns and in service to our country. Today I’m on a different mission with Ken Ulman (my runningmate). The fight is different, but it’s just as important to Maryland families because this November voters are going to decide. They’re going to make a choice. Do we wake up every morning fighting for work and families and middle-class values — and that’s the vision that Ken Ulman(my runningmate) and I share with so many Marylanders — or we wake up favoring a small group of the largest wealthiest corporations who need the help the least at the expense of the middle class. Ken Ulman (my runningmate) and I will wake up every day with you, Maryland, to fight for working families and middle-class values.
Let me be clear. I don’t see the need, nor as governor of Maryland, to raise taxes. There will be no new taxes in the Brown Alman Administration. Let’s complete the picture. We were faced with 40% increase in college tuition, overcrowded classrooms, the most congested streets on the highway, and Marylanders did their part to protect our schools, safe neighborhoods, and the environment, all so that we can ensure that we have a vibrant economy and communities to attract families and business to Maryland. There will be no new taxes. What I propose, and in fact I think Mr. Hogan (my opponent) and I agree in the need for tax relief, but where we differ is that my tax relief starts with the middle class. It starts with small and entrepreneurial businesses, the innovators and the job creators. Small businesses create two out of every three jobs in Maryland. In fact, the US Chamber of Commerce looks at our small entrepreneurial business community and ranks it number one in the country. That’s where we start, small businesses that create two out of every three middle-class jobs. What I disagree with is Mr. Hogan’s  (my opponent) approach, where he begins by providing a $300 million tax giveaway annually to the smallest group of the largest corporations, many of them headquartered out of the state of Maryland, who need it the least. In a Brown Utlmond Administration (my administration), we will’ll fight for working families and middle-class jobs, which means we’re supporting small and entrepreneurial businesses with targeted tax credits so that they can create the jobs that put Marylanders to work.

So what Marylanders remember, and they don’t want to go back to, was the largest expansion in state government under your Administration, $300 billion in increases in tax and fees, and you jacked up college tuition by 40%. As the appointment secretary, you appointed 10 of the 14 members to the board of regions that voted to increase college tuition by 40%. You left classrooms overcrowded, no plan to reduce congestion on the streets of the roads of Maryland. Marylanders remember those days, and they do not want to go back to those days. But this is not about the past. This is about the future. There’ll be no new taxes in a Brown almond Administration. There’ll be targeted tax credits for small businesses. I think about a small business success story in Maryland, started in his grandparents’ garage and just three weeks ago announced that he eclipsed Adidas to be the number two sports apparel company in the world. That’s Under Armour, and that’s a Maryland success story. Under Armour in its early years had targeted tax credits. They grow, they nurtured with a competitive workforce, and they’re now the number two sports apparel company in the world.

Once again, we agree. I agree that every child in Maryland deserves access for a world-class education, and we’ve made tremendous progress in doing that. I do take issues with your facts. We’re closing the achievement gap on income faster than any state in the nation, and we’re making very good progress on eliminating the achievement gap along racial and ethnic lines. It’s because, and I think this is what your question, Andy, went to, goes to the resources that we’re willing to invest in our schools. Look, in my vision for world-class education, that starts with investments in pre-education. I think that every Maryland four-year-old should have access to quality pre-k because if you ask, whether you ask a university president or a kindergarten teacher, how do we best prepare kids for college readiness or the workforce, they all start with expanding pre-k. Mr. Hogan (my opponent) opposes the expansion of pre-k. He says we can’t afford it. I say we can’t, we can’t afford not to do it. I also support investments in school construction. We’re not going to raise taxes to do it, and we won’t jeopardize our AAA bond rating, but we have the ability with our AAA bond rating in Maryland to make investments in schools, and we have. I supported the $1.1 billion investment in Baltimore City. I look forward to working with Baltimore County, Montgomery County, Prince George’s County, and every county executive that wants to look for opportunities to deliver modern technology-ready classrooms. But Mr. Hogan  (my opponent)  opposes that as well. In fact, in his most recent so-called savings plan, he calls for a $450 million cut to school construction that would set us back years as we move children out of temporary learning trailers into technology-ready classrooms so they can receive the instruction that prepares them for college or the workforce. Your  (my opponent) $450 million school construction cut would take Maryland back to a place that they do not want to go.
Sure. Thank you, Teresa. I can certainly assure you that while I agree with a lot of the things that the comptroller says, I don’t agree with him when he says we’re going to raise taxes. We will not raise taxes in my Administration. Look, we’ve got a AAA bond rating. We’ve created 16,000 jobs in the state. The US Chamber of Commerce recognizes our small entrepreneurial business community as number one in the country. We are going to ensure that through targeted tax credits and business tax deductions that we can support small and entrepreneurial businesses that create two out of every three jobs in Maryland. These are middle-class jobs and opportunities for working families. The other thing that we’re going to do is to make sure that in order to be able to offer those tax credits and reliefs to middle-class families and to small and entrepreneurial businesses, we’re going to look at spending. And again, Mr. Hogan and I agree here that we need to look at spending in government, but we fundamentally disagree on how we do that. My plan calls for strategic resourcing. It talks for cooperative purchase agreements with counties so that we can get more value at a lower cost, our vehicle fleet management, continuing to make strides in efficiencies and reducing our expenditures in Medicaid. And now we’ve just shifted to a new state employee health plan that’s going to save us millions of dollars as we require state employees to focus more on wellness and prevention and less on chronic disease management. My savings plan is considerably different than (my opponent’s) Mr. Hogan’s so-called savings plan, which not only cuts $450 million from school construction but also calls for a $300 million increase in the property tax base. That’s what (my opponents) your so-called savings plan does.
Let’s talk about the record. Over the course of the last eight years, led the BRAC base realignment enclosure effort. We brought 40,000 jobs to Maryland. Let’s talk about record. I spearheaded the effort in Maryland to create a framework for public-private partnerships where we attract not only private sector dollars but private sector ingenuity. Projects like the $140 million private sector investment in the Port of Baltimore, that created 5,000 jobs. Not only those jobs, but 1,200 jobs coming to the port with Amazon’s fulfillment center. BMW just announced that it’s bringing increased volume of cars and increased jobs to the port. You know, Larry (my opponent), the only plan that you’ve rolled out on this campaign, because you talk about sort of like woe is to Maryland’s economy, the only plan is your so-called savings plan, which is riddled with incompetence. It includes a $450 million cut to school construction, increase in the property tax base. You talk about cutting taxes, you’re talking about in your so-called plan increasing the property tax base by $300 million. Okay. And you got a rounding era. This is not just me The Baltimore Sun did an independent analysis, said that your numbers don’t add up.
Larry (my opponent), there you go again painting a distorted picture. Maryland and the entire nation came through a Great Recession of proactive recovery except for education. No program didn’t see, or said another way, every program saw reduction in expenditures, and unfortunately programs that protect the environment. Larry, you  (my opponent) and I stand in two completely different places. I stand in the tradition of Marylanders who for centuries understand that we have to take a balanced approach to protecting the environment. You  (my opponent) stand somewhere upstream in the Susana River, pointing your finger at Pennsylvania and New York, accusing them of not doing what you’re  (my opponent) unwilling to do here in Maryland. We need a robust storm water management facility program to reduce the storm water that carries pollutants into the bay. We need to work with farmers, the plowman working with the fishermen, right, the farmers, to reduce runoff, and we’ve done a great job with that with cover prop, putting land in the program open space, the manure transport program, and pesticide management. We’ve got work to do. We need to work with the local government storm waterer management. We need to work with developers to reduce the number of septics in developments. We need to continue the progress that we’re making on upgrading clean water and wastewater treatment plants.
Look, this is a balanced approach. This is assuming the responsibility. Why? Because of vibrant Chesapeake Bay and environment accounts for hundreds of businesses and tens of thousands of jobs in Maryland. You can’t be pro-business and not be pro-environment in Maryland, whether it’s the maritime operations at the Port of Baltimore, the watermen, the restaurants, the hospitality industry, the tourism industry. It relies on a clean bay. We can’t look to New York and Pennsylvania to do what we’re not willing, what you’re  (my opponent) not willing, to do here in Maryland.
Diane, I believe that campaigns are conversations with voters about Maryland’s future, conversation about record, how we build the better Maryland for more Marylanders. And I also believe that voters ought to know where candidates stand on a wide range of issues. It’s not for a candidate to say that this issue is important this election and another one isn’t. So that’s why we’ve made a point in the my Administration to highlight Mr. Hogan’s  (my opponent) record on important issues because either from Cumberland or further west in Oakland to Ocean City, Marylanders ask me, they say, Anthony (me), where are you on public safety and more specifically the firearm safety protection act of 2013, because Mr. Hogan’s not talking about it.So we share with them Mr. Hogan’s (my opponent)  record. Mr. Hoga (my opponent) n said, and we have advertisements to communicate to voters, I don’t support Senate Bill 281. What was Senate Bill 281? Senate Bill 281 banned assault weapons and high-capacity magazines. Mr. Hogan (my opponent) opposed it. Senate Bill 281 would have required common-sense background checks, including fingerprinting, and we fingerprint for over 130 reasons in Maryland. We can do that before we sell a gun. Mr. Hogan (my opponent) opposed it. Mr. Hogan (my opponent)  opposes 281, which is common-sense public safety measures for Maryland. Now he’ll tell you that we should rely on a federal database. Why should we rely on the federal government to protect our streets when we’ve got the tools to do it here? I think it’s fair in campaigning to present to voters a contrast on issues. I supported the firearm safety act of 2013. I’ll fully enforce it. I’ll fund the enforcement, and I’ll hire people unlike Mr. Hogan (my opponent) who will fully enforce it, not try to roll it back by exact order.

Yes. Look, opinions matter for a governor, and voters ought to know what your opinion is. You (my opponent) say publicly, as you did this evening, that you won’t roll back the firearm safety act, but you (my opponent) spoke to a group of extreme gun owners and said don’t worry, give me a pass in public because when I’m governor I’m going to use executive order to roll back the provisions of the firearm safety act and I will appoint a superintendent of the state police who will interpret the law in a way that guns will be back on the street. That was in a full expose by The Washington Post. This is not me making this up. You’ve (my opponent) also taken positions. You (my opponent) say a 30-year businessman, you’ve been a political operative for 30 years. You’ve (my opponent) taken a position, for example, to ban abortions, overturn Roe versus Wade, and to limit contraceptions. Now you’re (my opponent) having this campaign-year conversion where you say that, where you take a different position. How can the voters trust you (my opponent) if you’re saying something different in public or one year and something different in private or another year? And voters ought to know. They ought to know your opinions, your (my opponent) beliefs, and what you’ll obviously enforce.
Thank you. I’m a first-generation American. My father came to this country out of poverty in Kingston Jamaica for a better way of life for himself and his family. He wanted to not only enjoy the benefits of America but make a contribution to the greatness that is America. And this is a land of immigrants. Some of our families arrived six decades ago like mine, some six weeks ago, and some centuries ago, but each of us has the opportunity, or should be afforded the opportunity, to make a contribution to the greatness that is our nation. There is failed immigration policy, or the inability to enact immigration reform in Congress, and that is really the source of the problem. And unfortunately it’s many of Mr. Hogan’s (my opponent’s) Republican colleagues in Congress that refused to pass meaningful reform. We’re not going to fix that in Maryland. But the question is what does the governor do to be able to manage undocumented immigrants who are in Maryland? And I think when we see children stranded at the border and the humanitarian crisis, that’s exhibit a of the failed policy. So how do we manage that? And I’ve laid out a framework for managing that. First and foremost, I think as people and as a nation we have obligation to protect children. We don’t leave children stranded at the border. So we’ll protect them. We’ll reunite them with their families because children do better when they’re with their families. When it’s safe to do so, we’ll return them to their country of origin. And temporarily, when we can’t do that, we’ll have them in our foster care system or social service system, provided that the federal government reimburses Maryland for the entire cost. We’ve got a vibrant foster care system in Maryland. We can accommodate this small group of children. Let’s protect them, let’s return them, let’s ensure that the federal government pays the full freight.
Sure, Faith. I understand that no family is immune from the tragedy of crime and even violent crime. Six years ago my cousin Kathy was killed by her estranged boyfriend with a gun in front of two Montgomery County police officers, who in turn killed him. And because of that I supported the firearm safety act of 2013. I also led the effort in Maryland to give judges greater authority to order domestic abusers to surrender their firearms when they issue a protective order. Because of those measures and others, but perhaps more importantly because of the men and women in law enforcement who are in communities around the state, we have driven crime down to levels that we haven’t seen in four decades. But our work continues until every Marylander can walk outside of their home, on their porch or on the corner of their street, and say this is the kind of neighborhood I want to raise my family, start a business, live, work, or play. So we have work to do, and that’s why we can’t roll back the provisions of the firearm safety act, which I intend to fully enforce. And we’re already beginning to see after a year a reduction in gun-related crimes in the state as a result of that. I also have a proposal to drive down recidivism. We’re making a lot of progress in Maryland, but some states are doing better than us. So we’re going to make sure that our re-entry population doesn’t commit crimes. We’ll make sure they have the training, the support, so that they can once again be productive in our communities and rejoin their families, driving down recidivism. So there are a number of things that we can do, a number of proposals that I’ve offered. It builds on a lot of our successes, but you can rest assure I’ll use every tool available, including gun safety laws, to make sure that you and every Marylander are living in a safer neighborhood.

You know, Larry, (my opponent)  it’s disappointing when you say that you don’t know how much progress that we’ve made because I think it’s incumbent on you and I to inform ourselves of the issues so that we know what the true challenges are, because the facts are we’ve driven crime down to the lowest levels in four decades. We’ve driven down crime against women and children to levels we haven’t seen in quite some time. And why are we doing it? So I understand we’re making progress, and I understand why, because we’re taking guns off the streets, we’re protecting victims of domestic violence, we’re putting more into drug treatment and addiction counseling in the institutions and in the communities than ever before. We’ve got skills training in the institutions and partnerships with the nonprofit community in the community. That’s why recidivism has gone from 50% to 40%. You have to understand that as a governor because perhaps the most important responsibility we have is to ensure the public safety. So you have to understand what’s working and what’s not working. Sure, we’ve driven recidivism down. We’ve got more work to do. Sure, we’ve driven crime down. We’ve got more work to do. You’ve got to understand the problem.
I support an independent commission as well, and I’ve said that over the course of this campaign. I think it’s the right thing to do for a number of reasons. I think it gives greater confidence in Maryland voters in the way that we redistrict, but it also, I believe, addresses the dysfunction that we’re seeing in our nation’s capital. You’re having members of Congress who now represent some extreme right and left districts, and I think that’s why you don’t have immigration reform, you don’t have a national energy policy, and a number of other important things that ought to be happening in Washington but are not. So I will certainly create an independent commission. Don’t want to get too far out in front because remember that’s going to be in the second term of my administration around the census, so it won’t be in the immediate future. But independent commission. But I also support what at least one or two supreme court justices are calling for, which is an amendment to the US Constitution because we can fix redistricting in Maryland and still greater confidence among Maryland voters, but we still need to address the larger national problem so that in Washington, where the redistricting has resulted in the dysfunction, we can get back to the business of doing work in Washington, which quite frankly isn’t happening today.
Sure. And again, I think Mr. Hogan (my opponent) and I agree fundamentally that we need to strengthen Maryland’s business climate. There are some aspects of our business climate where we’re very strong. We’ve got a quality workforce second to none. We’re making investments in infrastructure. Maryland’s quality of life. There are other areas where we certainly need dramatic improvements, like the regulatory environment. We can streamline regulations in Maryland, make it more cost effective for businesses to comply. We can do that without running away from our obligations to protect the environment or consumers in the workforce. So we can do that. Ken Omen (my runningmate) and I have stated, we have declared, that in my Administration the very first strategic goal that we announce — and every organization needs to declare strategic goals and you develop the metrics and you drive the metrics towards a goal — our first strategic goal will be to position Maryland’s business climate to be number one in the nation. Now look, there’s a raging debate whether Maryland’s business climate is hostile to businesses or whether it’s business friendly. Ken (my runningmate) and I aren’t participating in that debate. Our focus is on whether you believe we’re hostile or not, let’s improve the business climate so that BMW can expand its footprint, as it does, so more Amazon will come to Maryland, so Under Armour, which just announced an expansion, Lockheed Martin has just announced an expansion of operations in Baltimore County, Volvo Mack in Washington County, Frito Lay in Harford County. So you’ve got corporations that see a tremendous amount of strength in our business climate and are expanding and investing. But I think all of us can agree we’ve got to strengthen our business climate.
Entire minute and a half, and you didn’t put out a single proposal to strengthen Maryland’s business climate. You asked a lot of questions, just talked about, but not a single, not a single proposal.
Look, you and I agree that we can strengthen our business climate by providing tax relief, but we disagree in how. You (my opponent) would start with the largest corporations, a small group, the wealthiest, many of whom have headquarters out of the state of Maryland, and you would give them a $300 million annual tax giveaway. You (my opponent) said it in September. You (my opponent) would roll back that tax from 8.25 to 6%. In fact, you (my opponent) said in the spring that you would try to completely eliminate the corporate income tax, and that would just put a gaping hole in the next governor’s budget. I don’t support that. I support tax relief for small and entrepreneurial businesses that create two out of every three middle-class jobs and provide opportunities to work in families. That’s how we’re going to create a stronger business climate in Maryland.
So let let me let me sort of explain a relationship that a governor has with the lieutenant governor. And I was asked once, are you prepared to be lieutenant governor? I said probably the best experience I had that prepared me was when I was an executive officer in a company when I was in the military, and it was the company commander’s company. I had the privilege of going into the closed doors with the company commander and telling him and sharing with him how do we take care of soldiers, how do we do the mission, how do we ensure we have the resources, and at the end of the day the company commander made a decision and we both walked out the door and I supported the company commander’s decision in effectively leading that company. So that’s a lot the way that a governor lieutenant governor works. Having said that, there are a few things where I disagreed with Governor O’Malley, and one of them, for example, was the reducing deductions on the income tax, which was interpreted by some as the mortgage interest deduction. I didn’t agree with that, and I was very pleased that the legislature took that out of the proposal. We were able to balance our budget and meet the needs of Marylanders, and we didn’t need that provision. I’m glad it came out. I wasn’t coming out of the door and throwing my governor under the bus, and I hope that whoever the next lieutenant governor is understands that important relationship between governor and lieutenant governor. What do I agree with from the Erlich administration that Mr. Hogan was a part of? And you guys did raise tuition by 40%, and you appointed 10 of the 14, and you never stood up and said hey look this isn’t the way to go. But I understand because you were being a loyal appointment secretary. The Chesapeake restoration fund, which gives Maryland now the resources to invest in upgrading wastewater plants.
My priority is to ensure, thank you Kimberly, my priority is to ensure that when we build a better Maryland for more Marylanders, that’s all Marylanders. There are some things that are happening very well in Maryland. For example, women, the poverty rate for women is the lowest in Maryland, the lowest in the nation. We have a higher percentage of women who sit on corporate boards and in senior positions, and we’ve made the greatest strides, I think along with Hawaii, in reducing the gender wage gap. But we’ve got more work to do. That’s why I supported raising the minimum wage, which Mr. Hogan (my opponent) opposed. Why? Because the composite, if you will, the typical, the average minimum wage earner is a 33-year-old single woman. She was making minimum wage, which was less than the federal poverty level and unable to provide for her family. So I supported giving her and 455,000 other Marylanders a raise out of poverty. Studies show that it boosts our economy and it creates jobs. It’s good for women. It’s good for the economy. I’ve led the effort in reducing domestic violence in Maryland, a number of measures, support services for victims, programs in hospitals, giving judges the authority to order abusers to surrender firearms. And this year, finally, after 19 years of failed effort, we were able to finally have Maryland join the ranks of all other states and the district of Colombia. We reduced the standard of proof for a woman to get a protective order in a domestic violence case. That is tremendous progress for victims of domestic violence, both men and women, but we know that a disproportionate number of victims are women. So whether we’re talking about economic issues, whether we’re talking about educational opportunities, health opportunities, I will continue to be on the side of Maryland women.
Thank you. I believe firmly that every Marylander should be able to pursue the American dream, where when you work hard, play by the rules, sacrifice when necessary, you can not only pursue but achieve your dreams. My parents came to this country six decades ago in pursuit of that dream. Marylanders do have a choice in November, and the choice is whether to embrace the vision that Ken Ulman and I share with countless Marylanders across the state, where we’ll get up every morning fighting for work and families and middle-class values, or whether we favor large corporations and the privileged few. Are we going to fund pre-k or give a $3,300 million corporate tax giveaway? Are we going to keep our streets safe by ensuring that guns are off our streets, or do we go backwards to the days that nobody wants to return to? I need your vote in four weeks weeks. I need your help in the next four weeks. But more importantly Ken Ulman and I need you each and every day for the next four years as together we build a better Maryland for more Marylanders.
